# A Greek on Greece

If you've ever driven a car in my gorgeous birth country, you may have
observed a truly fascinating phenomenon as you prepare to make a left
turn: While you patiently wait in line for the left-turn light to turn
green, those who arrive immediately after you at that same
intersection don't actually line up behind you. Instead, they pass you
on the right, cut in front of the entire queue of cars and proudly
gain a few seconds at your expense. It doesn't matter that they
cheated and trampled on your rights a tiny little bit -- that's
standard practice in the busy streets of Athens, part of everyone's
daily quest to get ahead. Literally.

That tiny little daily violation of each other's rights is perfectly
symbolic of the prevailing national culture in Greece: My freedom does
not end where yours begins; it extends indefinitely, unless I'm caught
or stopped. It is considered perfectly normal to jump ahead of you at
the traffic lights, to smoke where I'm not supposed to smoke, to cheat
on my taxes [..]. Those who insist on respecting the rules are
considered a little less smart, a little less "Greek" -- and they're
often told they are the losers.

That's exactly the country that became financially insolvent
recently. My beautiful birth country continues to be the Eurozone's
most adolescent, rebellious, blindly self-defeating society. Greece
didn't get into all this trouble because its European partners took
advantage of it. [.. T]hen, on the strength of charm and an endless
stream of fake reform promises over the past half dozen years, the
money kept flowing in from its badly tricked Euro partners in the form
of bailouts. And nobody was even humiliated or angry about that. Until
now, of course.

The existential crisis that Greece is now going through may [..]
represent a [..] opportunity for a fundamental cultural reset
there. After this week's nasty reaction and xenophobic anger subsides,
after the dust settles and the new "humiliating" programs are put in
place, a new generation of Greeks may finally drive some solid reform
of their society. The country that once upon a time birthed democracy
might, at last, figure out how to be truly democratic, how to build
[..] and how to respect instead of demonizing.

But until that happens, Greece -- just like any angry, drug-addicted,
desperate and belligerent teenager -- needs a solid dose of tough love
from its European family. [..] Tough love doesn't feel good (for
either side) but it usually produces better results than
appeasement. Mercy on the Greek state, as a lot of bleeding hearts and
newly minted euro-experts have been advocating these past few days,
would have only fed a bad culture and perpetuated the problem.

Just like millions of other Greeks around the world, I have always
been incredibly proud of my heritage and incurably confident in my
compatriots' abilities. But unlike many of them right now, I am deeply
embarrassed by their anger [..], disheartened by their resistance to
change [..]

It's time for an enormous dose of tough love, so we can finally turn
the most beautiful country in the world into a viable, democratic [..]
society.


