# Data isn't always the answer

"Big Data" promises to turn terabytes, petabytes, and exabytes (with, 
presumably, zettabytes and yottabytes to come) of what's often ambient 
digital detritus into useful results. That promise often seems to come 
with an implicit assumption; with enough data and the tools to crunch 
it, useful insights will follow. Insights that can be used to make 
businesses more efficient, tailor everything from medicine to 
advertising for individuals, and employ instrumentation and automation 
on larger and more complex physical systems than ever before [..] 

[A]as Big Data hype accelerates, it's also useful to maintain an 
appropriate level of skepticism. While data can indeed lead to better 
results, this won't always be the case. The numbers don't always speak 
for themselves and sometimes the underlying science to apply data, 
however plentiful, in a useful way just doesn't exist [..]

There is not now, nor is there anything on the horizon, that is a 
scalable, automated means of exploiting people-generated data to extract
 actionable marketing information and sales knowledge. A well-known 
dirty little secret in the advertising world is that, even after 
millennia of advertising efforts, not a single copywriter can tell you 
with any confidence beyond a coin flip whether any given advertisement 
is going to succeed. The entire "industry" is based on wild-assed 
guesses and the media equivalent of tossing noodles against the kitchen 
wall to see what might stick, if anything.

Peter Fader, co-director of the Wharton Customer Analytics Initiative at
 the University of Pennsylvania, talks of a "data fetish" that is 
leading to predictions of vast profits from mining data associated with online activity.
 However, he goes on to note that more data and data from mobile devices
 doesn't always lead to better results. One reason is that "there is 
very little real science in what we call 'data science,' and that's a 
big problem."

We'll only see more stories about great results being achieved by 
applying data to some problem in a novel way. Especially when there's 
solid underlying science, algorithms, and models limited only by the 
quality or quantity of the inputs, more and different types of data can 
indeed lead to impressive results and outcomes.

But this doesn't mean that bigger data will always hold the key. 
Sometimes data is just data -- noise, really. Not information. It 
doesn't matter how much you store or how hard you process it.








at

July 11, 2012















