# Da Collapse, Macro Investing, McCollough

Been looking at Keith McCollough's rate-of-change paradigm. He uses
two general macro variables, inflation, growth, for investing. The
reason: rate of change, that is change of change (the second
derivative) of these two variables is highly correlated with market
returns. Know your ROC, know where / how to invest.

KM looks at YoY GDP growth (comparing Jan of 2018 to Jan of 2017),
which gives the first derivative, another difference is the second
derivative. Same is applied to inflation.

So we can have one variable accelerating, the other decelerating, both
accelerating, etc. (very important, not simply increase, 'accelerate'
meaning increase of the increase). The combination gives 4 different
outcomes which KM maps to "Quads" - Quad 1, Quad 2, so forth.

Quad1 is good, and Quad2 is really good. In both growth is going
up. In Quad2 growth and inf going up at the same time. Everyone wins
except golds, bonds, and dollar.

In Quad4 growth and inflation go down at the same time. In Quad4 you
want to be

long dollar

long low beta defensives, utilities, consumer staples

long bonds

short momentum

short growth

short technology

Quad 3 is stagflation, that's what central bankers do when they
realize they are in Quad 4.  They devalue currency, create asset price
inflation.  That's what Chinese did on 2018 when they realized they
were in Quad 4. They devalued yuan by 4%, they tried to create
illusion of growth through asset price inflation, but what they get is
economic stagflation.

US is now in Quad 4. 

Some interesting take-aways:

The excerpt above suggests asset price inflation is part of the
cycle. In fact KM is non-committant on "the collapse of the dollar"
"gold will rule again", scenario, the major clusterf--k. That colapse
can happen in two years, or much later, in the meantime man's gotta
eat, and his investing style allows him to do that. This is how he was
able to bet on 10-yr yields falling (in Quad 4 inflation would be
falling, and the 10yr follows that like a glove), whereas "some
others" were getting everyone worked up on Apocalypse Now which would
result in yields shooting through the roof. That did not happen. US is
slowing in Quad 4, it has nothing to do with the China trade deal.

Since these two variables have the utmost importance, for future
determination KM and his company take great care trying to predict
them. Their prediction method is within 20 basis points of the real
GDP and inflation. As a point of reference, FED's success rate is 200
basis points. Yes the Federal Reserve.

I was able to replicate historical quads, [code](quads.md),
[graph](quads.png). Took a stab on prediction as well (same doc),
looks like there is a pattern. For more, follow Hedgeye.

Oh but you can't time the market - yes you can. This is precisely what
these guys are doing. "Not timing the market", relying on other
signals, as it turns out, is just another approach, technique. 

In terms of politics, growth slowing gives Rep oppo a slight chance
whereas with 3% growth there was no chance. Now with econ slowing and
sufficiently strong message that carries a contrast (other than
crimes, innuendo, blowjob, i.e. staples for centrist Democrats) in
terms of policy. Combined with Dubya level campaigning a progressive
can make it into the White House.

Links

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hS-JOXZrcdU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hS-JOXZrcdU)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2NvNGAIvcb0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2NvNGAIvcb0)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-uoyDj0tKs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-uoyDj0tKs)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27SQ5mYf38k](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27SQ5mYf38k)

Volatility

[https://youtube.com/watch?v=FwpckOfUyRk](https://youtube.com/watch?v=FwpckOfUyRk)

[https://youtube.com/watch?v=-WJtepxbQbE](https://youtube.com/watch?v=-WJtepxbQbE)

[https://youtube.com/watch?v=USrojq9tgzs](https://youtube.com/watch?v=USrojq9tgzs)

