# The Road to Oblivion

Thomas Frank

There have been an estimated sixteen thousand books written about
Abraham Lincoln. Like the lives of the wealthy and the secrets of
self-improvement, a fascination with the Great Emancipator seems to be
an unchanging feature of American literary taste. Few of these
volumes, however, have had the resilience of Doris Kearns Goodwin’s
*Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln*. In 2005,
when the book first appeared, it was the subject of “vast critical
acclaim” and remained on the New York Times bestseller list for some
twenty-seven weeks, according to the press release that accompanied my
copy. Three years later, a junior senator from Illinois named Barack
Obama anointed Team of Rivals one of his favorite books, once again
pushing it into the glare of public adulation. When Steven Spielberg
transformed it into his movie Lincoln in 2012, the book climbed the
charts for a third time.

Despite having triggered these sequential booms in Lincolniana, Team
of Rivals is profoundly uninspiring. [..]

One cavil you might raise is that this isn’t much of a revelation,
since big wars are generally fought by national-unity governments. Nor
was the “team of rivals” concept an innovation of the early 1860s,
though Goodwin assures us it was. [..]

It was, in other words, an unremarkable arrangement, documented here
in a largely unremarkable book, all of it together about as startling
as a Hallmark card. How did such a commonplace slice of history come
to define the political imagination of our time?

To begin with, the book perfectly captures the faiths of our
white-collar priesthood. The appeal of *Team of Rivals* to this
corporate demographic is built into its very architecture: after
Goodwin relates some familiar Civil War anecdote, she invariably ties
it to Lincoln’s style of personnel management—this supposedly being
the true manifestation of his genius. And to every vexing
human-relations question, Team of Rivals gives a pat answer. How, for
example, does one ride herd on a group of difficult, contentious, even
creative people? Goodwin’s Lincoln offers the following counsel:
Listen more and blame less. Also: Be sure to relax now and then. Also:
Don’t hold grudges.

[Then ..] during the 2008 election season [..] Team of Rivals was
endorsed by Barack Obama. That’s when it occurred to pundit after
pundit that the book was about something that should properly warm the
heart of every American: bipartisanship [..]

[Steven Spielberg's] movie *Lincoln* focuses very narrowly on a short
segment of [based on the previous book above] book in which the
president rams the Thirteenth Amendment—the one abolishing
slavery—through the House of Representatives. It’s 1865, and Lincoln
has just won reelection. Still, he doesn’t want to wait for a new
Congress to be seated: the amendment must be passed immediately. This
means winning a two-thirds majority in a lame-duck legislative body
that is still filled with his opponents, and the bulk of the movie is
a close study of the lobbying and persuading and self-censoring to
which Lincoln and his team must descend in order to, well, free the
slaves. These are the lessons for our time that Spielberg has plucked
from Goodwin’s Lincoln saga.

And upon beholding the film, the upholders of the Washington consensus
saw the clouds part and the sun shine through. Yet another commonplace
had been magnificently reaffirmed—and this time it was the emptiest
D.C. cliché of all. “It’s compromise,” is how Goodwin summarized the
film’s message for an interviewer. And the commentariat chimed in
unison: Yes! We have learned from this movie, they sang, that
politicians must Make Deals. That one must Give Something to Get
Something.

The film was a study in the “nobility of politics,” declared David
Brooks in the New York Times; it teaches that elected officials can do
great things, but only if they “are willing to bamboozle, trim,
compromise and be slippery and hypocritical.” Michael Gerson of the
Washington Post suggested that members of Congress be made to watch
the thing in order to acquire “a greater appreciation for flexibility
and compromise.”According to Al Hunt of Bloomberg News, the film shows
our greatest president “doing what politicians are supposed to do, and
today too often avoid: compromising, calculating, horse trading,
dealing and preventing the perfect from becoming the enemy of a good
objective.” [..]

The Civil War is a peculiar place to set such a message. After all, it
was compromise that permitted the South’s slave empire to grow so
large—the Compromise of 1850, the Kansas-Nebraska Act, and so on—and
Abraham Lincoln first rose to prominence as a highly moralistic
opponent of the last of these. The abolitionist movement itself was
about ninety-nine parts idealistic grassroots outrage to one part
Washington machination. And the war itself brought about a popular
demand for “unconditional surrender,” not further compromise with the
South.

The movie actually goes well beyond celebrating compromise: it also
justifies corruption. Lincoln and his men, as they are depicted here,
do not merely buttonhole and persuade and cajole. They buy votes
outright with promises of patronage jobs and (it is strongly
suggested) cash bribes. The noblest law imaginable is put over by the
most degraded means. As Thaddeus Stevens, leader of the Radical
Republicans in the House of Representatives, says after the amendment
is finally approved: “The greatest measure of the nineteenth century
was passed by corruption, aided and abetted by the purest man in
America.”

The movie is fairly hard on crusading reformers like Thaddeus
Stevens. The great lesson we are meant to take from his career is that
idealists must learn to lie and to keep their mouths shut at critical
moments if they wish to be effective. Lobbyists, on the other hand,
are a class of people the movie takes pains to rehabilitate. Spielberg
gives us a raffish trio of such men, hired for the occasion by William
Seward, and they get the legislative job done by throwing money
around, buying off loose votes—the usual. They huddle with Lincoln
himself to talk strategy, and in a climactic scene, Spielberg shows us
how a worldly lobbyist can git-r-done while a public servant dithers
about legalisms. Happy banjo-and-fiddle music starts up whenever the
lobbyists are on-screen—drinking, playing cards, dangling lucrative
job offers—because, after all, who doesn’t love a boodle-bundling gang
of scamps?

Tony Kushner, the celebrated playwright who wrote the script for
Lincoln, told NPR that the project had allowed him “to look at the
Obama years through a Lincoln lens.” As in 1865, he said, there is
enormous potential now for “rebuilding a real progressive democracy in
this country.” There are “obstacles” to this project, however. And
among the most notable ones, in Kushner’s view, are those damn
liberals—or, more specifically, “an impatience on the part of very
good, very progressive people with the kind of compromising that you
were just mentioning, the kind of horse trading that is necessary.”

Allow me to do some historicizing of my own. Since about the middle of
the Bush years, we have been living through a broad revival of reform
sentiments. What ignited this revival, and what has kept it going
since then, is a disgust with precisely the sort of workaday
Washington horse trading that the makers of this ​movie have chosen to
celebrate. Think of all the chapters in this saga of outrage: the
soft-money campaign donations; the selling of earmarks; the Koch
brothers and their galaxy of Washington pressure groups; the Citizens
United decision; the power of money over the state.

I myself think it’s healthy that public fury over this stuff has
simmered on into the present; there’s still plenty to be furious
about. The lobbyists may be Democrats or Republicans, but they are
pulling the wires for the same interests as always. Many of the people
who engineered the deregulation of Wall Street (or their protégés) are
still hanging around the halls of power. And the one great triumph of
the Obama administration, health care reform, was flawed from the
beginning, thanks to a heavy thumb on the scales placed by the
insurance and pharmaceutical industries.

Maybe complaining about all this is yet another hangup of the
contemporary Thaddeus Stevens set, who can’t see that tremendous
victories await if they’d just lighten up about reform and
money-in-politics. But maybe—just maybe—reform is itself the great
progressive cause. Maybe fixing the system must come first, as a
certain senator from Illinois once seemed to believe, and everything
else will follow from that.

Instead we have a movie that glorifies Abraham Lincoln as a great
compromiser, focusing on the one episode where a dash of corruption
worked wonders and everyone lucked out and the best measure in
American history was thereby enacted. While watching it, though, I
couldn’t help but think of all the episodes of ordinary Washington
venality that this movie effectively rationalizes—like the doings of
the Grant administration, for example, in which several of the same
characters who figure in ​Lincoln played a role in one of the most
corrupt eras in American history. Or just imagine a movie about the
lobbyists who pushed banking deregulation through in the
centrism-worshipping Clinton years. All the magic elements were there:
consensus; compromise; idealists in surrender; lovable lobbyists
dangling pleasures of the flesh before bureaucrats. Ninety minutes
glorifying the merry japes of those lovable corruptionists—that’s a
task for a real auteur.

