
---

Eric Hilton - Arteries \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Ht32U2yBagQ)

---

"@chu@climatejustice.social

Exactly why billionaires hate remote work. Here's another way to spin
the headline:

'Remote work to reduce fossil fuel revenue by more than half'"

---

Fast Company: "Net neutrality is back, and telecom giants are up to
their usual dirty tricks... Opponents of net neutrality have endless
money to burn on lobbying and influence operations, and they’ve shown
no qualms about breaking the law or straight-up lying to achieve their
goals"

---

"@hub@cosocial.ca

Don't forget to change your DNA when you learn it has been compromised"

---

"Moog Aircraft in the UK will lead a ground-breaking collaboration
project, assisted by Aerospace Technology Institute (ATI) programme
grant funding, to develop key technologies for future liquid hydrogen
gas turbine fuel systems"

---

Arab News: "DuckDuckGo CEO says Google’s billions got in the way of a
deal with Apple.. The CEO of privacy-oriented search engine DuckDuckGo
said its talks with Apple about a potential contract failed because
the smartphone maker was reluctant to give up Google’s multibillion
dollar paychecks, according to newly transcripts of a landmark
antitrust trial of the Alphabet unit"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "BP Joins H2accelerate Collaboration To Enable The
Scale Up Of Low Carbon Hydrogen As A Fuel For Heavy Duty Vehicle
Sector"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/111/211/085/423/229/594/small/af5bfd12c69bb747.png'/> 

---

CleanTechnica: "Red-Hot Green Hydrogen Field Just Got Hotter (and
Greener)...  Photoelectrochemical cells can push green hydrogen
directly from water without the need for standalone solar
panels... The Intertubes have been burning up with news of the first
billion-dollar unicorn to emerge from the boiling stew of green
hydrogen startups...

Last week, a US startup called Electric Hydrogen raised 380 million in
a Series C round of funding on the basis of building a better
electrolyzer.  That raised the company’s valuation over the $1 billion
bar, earning it the title of the industry’s first unicorn from The
*Wall Street Journal*"

---

NYT: "'[E]nmity toward Israel over its decades-long occupation of
their land' remained strong, particularly as Israel's government
expanded settlements in the Palestinian West Bank after the
agreements. On Saturday, when Palestinian gunmen from the blockaded
territory of Gaza surged into Israel, carrying out the boldest attack
in the country in decades, it set off an outpouring of support for the
Palestinians across the region. In some quarters, there were
celebrations even as hundreds of Israelis and Palestinians were
killed... Demonstrations in solidarity with the Palestinians took
place across the region, including in Bahrain, Morocco, Turkey, Yemen,
Tunisia and Kuwait..

[I]n Egypt's coastal city of Alexandria, a policeman opened fire on
Israeli tourists, killing two Israelis and an Egyptian.The ripples
spreading from Gaza underscored what many officials, scholars and
citizens in the region have been saying for years: The Palestinian
cause is still a deeply felt rallying cry that shapes the contours of
the Middle East, and Israel's position in the region will remain
unstable as long as its conflict with the Palestinians continues"

---

Firstpost: "In a shocking incident, Amazon's smart assistant, Alexa,
told a user that the 2020 US Presidential elections was stolen by the
Democrats and that there was a massive voter fraud. Alexa apparently
cited Rumble, a video-streaming service popular among conservatives as
evidence"

---

Politico: "On Saturday, the California governor signed a first-in-the
nation bill prohibiting the use of four food additives because they’ve
been linked to serious health problems including cancer"

---

Politico: "Newsom signs first-in-the-nation corporate climate
disclosure bills.. The laws will require large corporations operating
in the state to disclose both their carbon footprints and their
climate-related financial risks"

---

NYT: "Opposition to Ukraine Aid Becomes a Litmus Test for the
Right.. The drama that has played out among House Republicans over the
past week has highlighted a sharp decline in the party’s willingness
to back continued aid for Kyiv’s fight against Russia"

---

The Wachowskis continued their attemps of making up for their mistake
in another movie - *Jupiter Rising*. The hero now was working class (a
cleaner girl who was 'special') and the bad people are an
intergalactic empire who 'own' Earth. Their dominance have Matrix-y
aspects, they can erase people's memories to make sure they are not
known but the control is not like Matrix level which symbolizes
government that every libertard should tremble in fear about whenever
they hear its name. The overlords of JR are of a feudal type and
mostly interested in humans as products, they want to harvest them and
become rich. So in essence they are capitalists, cornering their
markets, producing their products and above all, exploiting.

---

The first Matrix movie was anti-government pro-corporate propaganda.
How about the sexond and the third? They were trying to mend fences
with those two..  After the first, the Wachowskis realized what they
had done. They had created a masterpiece for every anti-gov ultra
libertard fuckjob out there and they wanted to reel back some of their
"message".

II and III shows some easing of the boundaries between the humans and
"AI".  Smith gets something of Neo in him, who will later help the
machines survive.  The concept of The One is taken down a notch,
there've been others before. This way the "us against them" situation
if muddled, weakened, placed in the backburner if you will. If the
theme music of the first was Rob Zombie's *Dragula* the theme music
for this one would be *Why Cant We Be Friends?* Corporatists after all
want gov off their case, beaten down, be their bitch, but they dont
want it completely gone. They want an entity to subsidize them,
socialize their losses, and act like a capitalist enabler when they
are making huge profits. All this libertard shit is supposed to stay
at cosplay level, go buy some guns play the weekend warrior, act the
independent maverick type in your own little delusional sphere but
stay in the corporate ladder, and respect the markets. You are not
supposed to rock the boat, because these f--kers live on that boat.
They are the boat, this is the world in which they've already won.

---

"@feelnotes@alaskan.social

thinking about rep. barbara lee casting the lone vote against war,
three days after 9/11.

'let us not become the evil we deplore.'"

---
