
Canary Media: "Thanks to generous subsidies, the world is about to
start making a lot more low- and zero-carbon hydrogen. These charts
show how"

[[-]](https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/hydrogen/the-dawn-of-the-clean-hydrogen-economy-visualized)

---

.. required skill as in the skill required to sift through the garbage
code generated by so-called AI. Here some thought this tech would be
saving people work but ended up creating more. Hey, Big Tech got its
buzz, "excitement" and little bump in its stock price, all is well and
good.

---

"@jasongorman@mastodon.cloud

Meanwhile, on LinkedIn: 'Reading code effectively will soon be a
required skill for many developers in the same way writing code is
today'"

---

"@thatprivacyguy@eupolicy.social

In what can only be seen as Alphabet's blatant refusal to obey EU law,
it was announced over the weekend that they would introduce Bard to
Android Messages App and intercept all messages (past and future) for
the purpose of training it - in breach of EU's rules on interception
of communications under Article 5(1) of Directive 2002/58/EC.

To make it worse Alphabet know this is illegal after they were caught
intercepting WiFi communications in 2010 with their Streetview cars"

---

Forbes: "The Hydrogen Economy: What Our World Could Look Like & Why It
Matters.. Last year was the hottest on record and estimated global
wildfire carbon emissions increased by 30% in 2023 compared to 2022,
according to the EU’s Copernicus Climate Change Service... Government
entities recognize hydrogen use as a necessary enabler of the energy
transition. Recently, at COP28, more than 30 countries including the
United States formally recognized the importance of clean hydrogen in
decarbonization and meeting global energy needs"

[[-]](https://www.forbes.com/sites/honeywell/2024/01/29/the-hydrogen-economy-what-our-world-could-look-like--why-it-matters/?sh=649a81cc2386)

---

VS Magazine: "The 'Coding on Copilot' whitepaper from GitClear sought
to investigate the quality and maintainability of AI-assisted code
compared to what would have been written by a human. In other words:
'Is it more similar to the careful, refined contributions of a Senior
Developer, or more akin to the disjointed work of a short-term
contractor?'

The answer to that is summarized in this paragraph from the
whitepaper's abstract:

'We find disconcerting trends for maintainability. Code churn -- the
percentage of lines that are reverted or updated less than two weeks
after being authored -- is projected to double in 2024 compared to its
2021, pre-AI baseline"

---

"The UK tax system is a con" - the conversation about the *New Statesman*
article written by Lambert, the guest.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/FvChkJIfdkc?t=316)

---

Frontline changes 01/22 - 01/30. Holy Tabaivka..

[[-]](mbl/2024/ukrmap4.html)

---

## Reference

[Nations and Nationalism, Culture, Narratives](0119/2013/02/nations-and-nationalism.html)

[The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies](0119/2011/04/fundamentals-of-industrial-ideologies.html)

[Education, Workplace](0119/2017/09/education-workplace.html)

[Science and Technology](0119/2018/09/science-technology.html)

[Democracy, Parties](0119/2016/11/democracy.html)

[Economy](2021/01/economy.html)

[Globalization](0119/2018/09/globalization.html)

[Rome, The First Wave, Religion](0119/2017/12/rome.html)

[Human Nature & Health](2020/07/human-nature.html)

[Climate Change](2022/01/climate.html)

[Reports](2021/01/reports.html)

[The Middle East](0119/2019/07/middleeast.html)

[TR](../tr/index.html)

## Browse

[Members, Donations](2022/08/members.html)

[By Year](years.html)

[Search](search.html)

[Microblog Archive](mbl/index.html)

[PDF](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1FSi-1MnqXVq_PVTEXzzflwN8-7h92N_R)

Also on 
[Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@muratk5n),
[Codeberg](https://muratk5n.codeberg.page/en/),
[Github Pages](https://muratk5n.github.io/thirdwave/en/)
