
\#BigBang \#Elements

[[-]](https://youtu.be/l1BQLl59M-w?t=544)

---

*Twisters* good work. 

---

CNBC: "Disney's 'Deadpool & Wolverine' becomes the highest-grossing
R-rated film of all time"

---

"@cosmicray@mastodon.social

MIT dropped its contract with Elsevier, the huge scientific journal
company. Their library instead arranged alternate access to journals
and tools for researchers to get them. They’re saving $2 million/year"

---

There is a subtext to WSJ's reporting on the sabotage now; maybe the
Kursk incursion is seen by them as "some crazy shit" and they are
reminding the readers other "crazy shit" that current UA leadership
pulled off in the past, you are being defined in a certain way... That
means UA could be creating new enemies, outside the usual corners of
US right, and that does not bode well for them.

---

There is no empire. US direction is influenced by moneyed interests,
"a conglomeration of conglomerates", bunch of money grubbing
cocksuckers pulling, pushing the high ranking officials, politicians
every which way that is useful for them. There is no strategy. There
is no foresight. There is no plan. There is no place for public's
interest, unless that interest somehow, once in a blue moon coincides
with their profit interests (which does not happen often).

---

No the CIA would not have done the sabotage wout the executive's
knowledge.  They do whatever the hell POTUS tells them to. There is no
deep state.

---

I would not dare suggest *Commando* is a B-movie. 

---

[Link](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/6gfn6ayxoanlbt0qeph9h/commando_1.gif?rlkey=xet6rvzxhor1abk4pttoj4k8r&st=icvhq1ae&raw=1)

---

We'd mentioned this possibility [before](mbl/2023/week24.html).
Labeled as the "B Scenario" it is probably more likely the sabotage
happened the way described by WSJ. The A Scenario just isn't Biden's
style.. The whole thing has that Holywood B-movie adventurism to it,
and both Zelensk and the (now fired) UAF ex-chief are at the right age
for it. You watch that 80s action growing up you could think NS
sabotage is a "cool thing" to do.

---

The Guardian: "According to the WSJ, the [Nordstream] sabotage
operation involved a small sailing boat and a team of six people, a
combination of Ukrainian soldiers and civilians with relevant
expertise. The operation used private funding but was directed by a
serving army general, who reported to Ukraine’s then commander in
chief, Valerii Zaluzhnyi. Zelenskiy approved the plan, but later
backtracked after the CIA found out about it and asked Kyiv to call it
off, according to the WSJ’s sources. Nonetheless, Zaluzhnyi pressed
ahead with the mission, the report claims"

---

Tay Zonday: "There is no American 'housing crisis' - there's a
supply-hoarding crisis to rig local market prices above the liquidity
of local buyer capital.

The policy solution is simple: poison-pill tax all non-occupant-owned
housing to force immediate sale to local buyers at actual market
rates.

Allowing unlimited non-local capital to supply-hoard vacant housing is
simply anti-resident eugenics. Current residents are too poor, so
replace them with richer ones - even if it causes widespread
homelessness, forced migration and absurd energy costs for the
displaced to commute. It's as discriminatory as Federal Housing
Administration redlining of black neighborhoods in the 40s"

---

Reuters: "Thailand's billionaire ex-PM Thaksin Shinawatra granted
royal pardon"

---

## Reference

[Nations and Nationalism, Culture, Narratives](0119/2013/02/nations-and-nationalism.html)

[The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies](0119/2011/04/fundamentals-of-industrial-ideologies.html)

[Education, Workplace](0119/2017/09/education-workplace.html)

[Science and Technology](0119/2018/09/science-technology.html)

[Democracy, Parties](0119/2016/11/democracy.html)

[Economy](2021/01/economy.html)

[Globalization](0119/2018/09/globalization.html)

[Rome, The First Wave, Religion](0119/2017/12/rome.html)

[Human Nature & Health](2020/07/human-nature.html)

[Climate Change](2022/01/climate.html)

[Reports](2021/01/reports.html)

[The Middle East](0119/2019/07/middleeast.html)

[Games](2024/06/games.html)

[TR](../tr/index.html)

## Browse

[Members, Donations](2022/08/members.html)

[By Year](years.html)

[Search](https://muratk5n.github.io/thirdwave/en/search.html)

[Microblog Archive](mbl/index.html)

[PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/8kl0sla1booo83zeb28dn/tw-all.pdf?rlkey=p9r319p8jbzak5du3dasju05y&st=28wknfsp&raw=1)

Also on 
[Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@muratk5n),
[Codeberg](https://muratk5n.codeberg.page/en/),
[Github Pages](https://muratk5n.github.io/thirdwave/en/)
