<img src="https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1B2wf9R7AMH1d7Vw6e2mucLbIQ5NSjir7"/>

---

H2 View: "[H2 FC] unit developed by the RiverCell consortium has
passed safety testing and will now look to be implemented into the
German maritime sector"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Aurizon and Anglo American partner for hydrogen powered
trains"

---

NREL: "Researchers Seek To Lower Cost of [CSP] Heliostats 50% and
Jump-Start Manufacturing in the United States... The U.S. Department
of Energy’s (DOE’s) National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL),
joined by our partners at Sandia National Laboratories and the
Australian Solar Thermal Research Institute, announces the launch of
the Heliostat Consortium (HelioCon), an international effort to drive
down the cost of heliostats. HelioCon, led by NREL, emphasizes the
significance of heliostats as a key component of concentrating
solar-thermal power (CSP) technologies"

[[-]](https://www.nrel.gov/news/press/2021/nrel-launches-new-international-consortium-to-advance-high-tech-mirrors-used-in-solar-plants.html)

---

H2 View: "European Commission €900m scheme to support investments in
hydrogen production for non-EU countries"

---

H2 View: "A major breakthrough in green hydrogen production [by
electrolysis] has been achieved in Denmark with an innovative solution
that reduces the costs .. by approximately 15%"

---

McGowan is an AU Labor state premier, good to see their Labor is not
sitting idle.

PV Magazine: "The McGowan Government continues to fuel the growth of
Western Australia’s hydrogen industry, with three projects to receive
Lead Agency Services. Guided by the Lead Agency Framework, the
Department of Jobs, Tourism, Science and Innovation will provide the
projects with a single point of entry to the State Government and
assistance with approvals processes. Projects are assessed for Lead
Agency Services based on a number of factors, including level of
complexity, potential impacts and significance to the State"

---

John Cameron - The Great Escape \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/ewaxmRh9EuQ)

---

The reason Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.. They were starved off
resources, so wanted to gobble up Southeast Asia's resources to make
up for it. PH attack was done so US navy could not arrive from there
while Japan did the deed.. Hope was US would not respond heavily
anyway.. The gamble backfired..

[[Vid]](https://youtu.be/so4v_2zq35k?t=210)

---

True. Exp growth depends on the existing population size. X number of
people have children proportional to X. Exponential. Usually people
use exponential to subtitute a mathy-sounding word instead of more
pedestrian one, to show off. In most cases there is only multiples of
simple increase. The TV show *Numb3rs* had the best line, "not
'exponential', just 'more'".

"People overuse the word 'exponentially'"

---

"‘Unvaccinated’ Marjorie Taylor Greene owns stock in three vaccine companies"

---

"@gabriel_zucman

Top 0.01% Bitcoin owners own 27% of Bitcoin wealth"

---

"@laurieablair

Argentina, Bolivia, Peru, Honduras, now Chile and (perhaps) Brazil &
Colombia in 2022... Gabriel Boric’s historic victory joins a regional
left-wing resurgence"

---

Funding research through philantrophy doesn't exactly work
either.. Rich guy wld constantly ask "what've you done with my
money?".  He wants to see "results" so he can show off to his other
rich friends along with his NFTs.

---

\#electorate \#zakaria

[[-]](https://youtu.be/WUf_GqSaZro?t=208)

---

## For Members

[Link](https://thirdwave-members.herokuapp.com)

## Reference

[Nations and Nationalism, Culture, Narratives](/2013/02/nations-and-nationalism.md)

[The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies](/2011/04/fundamentals-of-industrial-ideologies.md)

[Education, Workplace](2017/09/education-workplace.md)

[Patents](/2018/09/patents.md)

[Democracy, Parties](/2016/11/democracy.md)

[Economy](/2018/05/economy.md)

[Globalization](/2018/09/globalization.md)

[Rome, The First Wave, Religion](/2017/12/rome.md)

[Human Nature & Health](/2020/07/human-nature.md)

[Climate Change](/2018/12/climate.md)

[Reports](/2019/05/reports.md)

[The Middle East](/2019/07/middleeast.md)

[TR](../tr)

## Browse

[By Year](years.md)

[Search](search.html)

[Tweet Archive](/tweets/README.md)


