# Q.E.P - Quantitative Easing for the People

Through an almost astrological coincidence of timing, the European
Central Bank, the Bank of England and the U.S. Federal Reserve Board
all held their policy meetings this week immediately after Wednesday’s
publication of the weakest manufacturing numbers for Europe and
America since the summer of 2009. With the euro-zone and Britain
clearly back in deep recession and the U.S. apparently on the brink,
the central bankers all decided to do nothing, at least for the
moment. They all restated their unbreakable resolution to do “whatever
it takes” – to prevent a breakup of the euro, in the case of the ECB,
or, for the Fed and the BoE, to achieve the more limited goal of
economic recovery. But what exactly is there left for the central
bankers to do? [..]

One [..] radical [alternative] measure is too controversial for any policymaker to 
mention publicly, although some have discussed it in private: Instead of
 giving newly created money to bond traders, central banks could 
distribute it directly to the public.  

Giving away free money may sound too good to be true or wildly 
irresponsible, but it is exactly what the Fed and the BoE have been 
doing for bond traders and bankers since 2009. Directing QE to the 
general public would not only be much fairer but also more effective.

Suppose the new money created since 2009, instead of propping up bond
 prices, had simply been added to the bank accounts of all U.S. and 
British households. In the U.S., $2 trillion of QE could have financed a
 cash windfall of $6,500 for every man, woman and child, or $26,000 for a
 family of four. Britain’s QE of £375 billion is worth £6,000 per head 
or £24,000 per family. Even if only half the new money created were 
distributed in this way, these sums would be easily large enough to 
transform economic conditions, whether the people receiving these 
windfalls decided to spend them on extra consumption or save them and 
reduce debts.

















