# Realtechnik, Nausea and Technological Longing

The story of barbed wire is one of the most instructive ones in the 
history of technology.  The short version is this: barbed wire 
(developed between 1860 to 1873) helped close the American frontier, 
carved out the killing fields of World War I, and by spurring the 
development of the tank as a counter-weapon, created industrial-era land
 warfare. It also ended the age-old global conflict between pastoral 
nomads and settled agriculturalists (of animals, vegetables and 
minerals) and handed a decisive victory to the latter. Cowboys and 
Indians alike were on the wrong side of the barbed wire fence. Quite a 
record for a technology that had little deep science or engineering 
behind it.


Barbed wire is an example of a proximal-cause technology 
that eventually disturbed multiple human balances of powers, starting 
with the much-mythologized cowboys-versus-ranchers balance. When things 
finally stabilized, a new technological world order had emerged, 
organizing everything from butter to guns differently.  Barbed wire was 
not a disruptive innovation in the Clayton Christensen sense. It was 
something far bigger. Its introduction marked what Marshall McLuhan called a break boundary in
 technological evolution: a rapid, irreversible and wholesale 
undermining of a prevailing planet-wide technological equilibrium. So 
ironically, the ultimate boundary-maker of physical geography was a 
boundary breaker in technology history.


The story of barbed wire illustrates the core principle that I want 
to propose: an equilibrium in technological affairs is necessary for an 
equilibrium in political affairs. There is no possibility of a realpolitik equilibrium without a corresponding realtechnik equilibrium: a
 prevailing, delicately balanced configuration of technological forces 
across an entire connected political-economic-cultural space (which 
today is always the entire planet).







at

August 21, 2012















