# String Theory, Multiverse, The Large Hadron Collider

[Peter Voit](https://www.math.columbia.edu/~woit/wordpress/?p=12604)

Multiverse mania started seriously among string theorists around 2003,
with a defining event Susskind’s February 2003 The Anthropic Landscape
of String Theory. At the time I was finishing up writing what became
the book “Not Even Wrong”.. For many years I found it impossible to
believe that this pseudo-scientific point of view would get any
traction.. It has become clear recently that we’ve now reached that
end-point. From the new video of his discussion with Rovelli, it’s
clear that David Gross has given up. No more complaints about the
multiverse from him, and his vision of the future has string theory
solving QCD 80 years from now, nothing about it ever telling us
anything about where the Standard Model comes from

[Unzicker](../../../2021/02/unzicker.html)

Smolin, *Einstein's Unfinished Revolution*

A vocal minority of cosmologists proclaims that the universe we see
around us is only a bubble in a vast ocean called the multiverse that
contains an infinity of other bubbles. And, whereas it is safe to
hypothesize that the galaxies we can see are typical of the rest of
our universe, one must regard the other invisible bubbles as governed
by diverse and randomly assigned laws, so our universe is far from
typical of the whole. This, together with the fact that all, or almost
all, of the other bubbles are forever out of range of our
observations, means the multiverse hypothesis can never be tested or
falsified. This puts this fantasy outside the bounds of
science. Nonetheless, this idea is championed by not a few highly
regarded physicists and mathematicians.

It would be a mistake to confuse this multiverse fantasy for the Many
Worlds Interpretation of quantum mechanics. They are distinct ideas.
Nonetheless, they share a magical-realist subversion of the aim of
science to explain the world we see around us in terms of only
itself. I would suggest that the harm done to clarity about the aim
and purpose of science by the enthusiastic proponents of the
multiverse would not have been possible had not the majority of
physicists uncritically adopted anti-realist versions of quantum
physics.

[[Up](../../2018/09/junk-science.html)]
