# Watergate Babies

It was January 1975, and the Watergate Babies had arrived in
Washington looking for blood. The Watergate Babies—as the recently
elected Democratic congressmen were known—were young, idealistic
liberals who had been swept into office on a promise to clean up
government, end the war in Vietnam, and rid the nation’s capital of
the kind of corruption and dirty politics the Nixon White House had
wrought. Richard Nixon himself had resigned just a few months earlier
in August. But the Watergate Babies didn’t just campaign against
Nixon; they took on the Democratic establishment, too. Newly elected
Representative George Miller of California, then just 29 years old,
announced, “We came here to take the Bastille.”

One of their first targets was an old man from Texarkana: a former
cotton tenant farmer named Wright Patman who had served in Congress
since 1929. He was also the chairman of the U.S. House Committee on
Banking and Currency and had been for more than a decade. Antiwar
liberal reformers realized that the key to power in Congress was
through the committee system; being the chairman of a powerful
committee meant having control over the flow of legislation. The
problem was: Chairmen were selected based on their length of
service. So liberal reformers already in office, buttressed by the
Watergate Babies’ votes, demanded that the committee chairmen be
picked by a full Democratic-caucus vote instead.

Ironically, as chairman of the Banking Committee, Patman had been the
first Democrat to investigate the Watergate scandal. But he was
vulnerable to the new crowd he had helped usher in. He was old; they
were young. He had supported segregation in the past and the war in
Vietnam; they were vehemently against both. Patman had never gone to
college and had been a crusading economic populist during the Great
Depression; the Watergate Babies were weaned on campus politics,
television, and affluence.

What’s more, the new members were antiwar, not necessarily
anti-bank. “Our generation did not know the Depression,”
then-Representative Paul Tsongas said. “The populism of the 1930s
doesn’t really apply to the 1970s,” argued Pete Stark, a California
member who launched his political career by affixing a giant peace
sign onto the roof of the bank he owned.

In reality, while the Watergate Babies provided the numbers needed to
eject him, it was actually Patman’s Banking Committee colleagues who
orchestrated his ouster. For more than a decade, Patman had
represented a Democratic political tradition stretching back to Thomas
Jefferson, an alliance of the agrarian South and the West against
Northeastern capital. For decades, Patman had sought to hold financial
power in check, investigating corporate monopolies, high interest
rates, the Federal Reserve, and big banks. And the banking allies on
the committee had had enough of Patman’s hostility to Wall Street.

Over the years, Patman had upset these members by blocking bank
mergers and going after financial power. As famed muckraking columnist
Drew Pearson put it: Patman “committed one cardinal sin as
chairman. ... He wants to investigate the big bankers.” And so, it was
the older bank allies who truly ensured that Patman would go down. In
1975, these bank-friendly Democrats spread the rumor that Patman was
an autocratic chairman biased against junior congressmen. To new
members eager to participate in policymaking, this was a searing
indictment.[..]

Not all on the left were swayed. Barbara Jordan, the renowned
representative from Texas, spoke eloquently in Patman’s defense. Ralph
Nader raged at the betrayal of a warrior against corporate power. And
California’s Henry Waxman, one of the few populist Watergate Babies,
broke with his class, puzzled by all the liberals who opposed Patman’s
chairmanship. Still, Patman was crushed. Of the three chairmen who
fell, Patman lost by the biggest margin. A week later, the
bank-friendly members of the committee completed their
takeover. Leonor Sullivan—a Missouri populist, the only woman on the
Banking Committee, and the author of the Fair Credit Reporting Act—was
removed from her position as the subcommittee chair in revenge for her
support of Patman. “A revolution has occurred,” noted The Washington
Post.

Indeed, a revolution had occurred. But the contours of that revolution
would not be clear for decades. In 1974, young liberals did not
perceive financial power as a threat, having grown up in a world where
banks and big business were largely kept under control. It was the
government—through Vietnam, Nixon, and executive power—that organized
the political spectrum. By 1975, liberalism meant, as Carr put it,
“where you were on issues like civil rights and the war in Vietnam.”
With the exception of a few new members, like Miller and Waxman,
suspicion of finance as a part of liberalism had vanished.

Over the next 40 years, this Democratic generation fundamentally
altered American politics. They restructured “campaign finance, party
nominations, government transparency, and congressional organization.”
They took on domestic violence, homophobia, discrimination against the
disabled, and sexual harassment. They jettisoned many racially and
culturally authoritarian traditions. They produced Bill Clinton’s
presidency directly, and in many ways, they shaped President Barack
Obama’s.

The result today is a paradox. At the same time that the nation has
achieved perhaps the most tolerant culture in U.S. history, the
destruction of the anti-monopoly and anti-bank tradition in the
Democratic Party has also cleared the way for the greatest
concentration of economic power in a century. This is not what the
Watergate Babies intended when they dethroned Patman as chairman of
the Banking Committee. But it helped lead them down that path. The
story of Patman’s ousting is part of the larger story of how the
Democratic Party helped to create today’s shockingly disillusioned and
sullen public, a large chunk of whom is now marching for Donald Trump.












