# Week 4

Neither

Left / right division cannot explain the new events that we are
experiencing. You are trying to fit a square peg into a round hole; on
the way, you are making up stuff to make analysis ring true. There is
no Free Love in ST. This is dumb ass conservative talk. You have bunch
of grown adults who have professions, they date, marry, etc. Yeah -
like today. The main cultural rift in US is between "freedom /
prohibition". Therefore new, tectonic social shifts are "experienced"
through this division, this cultural lens. This does not mean that is
what is really happening out there in daily life.

"No money" thing can be an exaggeration, but think about what would
happen if energy became so abundant. Energy is the major diminishing,
un-abundant resource, yes? Well, what if it was free. As in beer.

"No apparent culture or art"? This is bunk. I clearly remember
episodes where the crew play in concerts, have theather. Also there
must be some people who "program" the that VR room called holodeck. I
am sure it does not run by itself, or run on fart. Which, it seems is
what your site runs on.

Expansionist, shmantionist. The so-called 'federation' accepts
members, they stay away from non-spacefaring planets
(non-interference), and they help if help is asked. What's not to
like?

F..ing A!

Republibot: "Is Star Trek Liberal or Conservative?"

---

Motherlover

[![IMAGE ALT
TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/X0DeIqJm4vM/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X0DeIqJm4vM)

---

What the f..k are you talking about

Science gets a good support in this movie, the scientist are usually
portrayed as evil master planners who concoct some kind of weapon for
world domination (or work someone who has such plans) but in this
movie, they are the good guys. Illiteracy for path to grace? C'mon.

White messiah comment makes no sense either: The movie canon
specifically mentions some other dude from the past who has ridden
that large beasty dragon lookin' flying shabang, and that dude was no
outsider. Our white guy is only following his footsteps (according to
the movie).

Listen: Avatar is Dances with Wolves with better CGI, minus Kevin
Costner. Nice huh? :)

That's it!

"[The movie] rests on the assumption that nonwhites need the White
Messiah to lead their crusades. It rests on the assumption that
illiteracy is the path to grace. It also creates a sort of two-edged
cultural imperialism. Natives can either have their history shaped by
cruel imperialists or benevolent ones, but either way, they are going
to be supporting actors in our journey to self-admiration. It’s just
escapism, obviously, but benevolent romanticism can be just as
condescending as the malevolent kind — even when you surround it with
pop-up ferns and floating mountains."

---

Mad Men is making good on its promise of taking us through a whirlwind
tour of US political, social landscape, thereby highlighting major
issues that came to define America. We left last season with Betty
leaving Don for good, after so many mishaps they lived through as a
couple.

If we think back for a second, we will remember how Betty came to a
point where she could not take it anymore.

It was RFK's assasination.

Think about it: She lived in a modern world, living in a nuclear
family, in a suburban home, with a working husband and her 2.5 kids
(well 3, but you get the point -they started with 2 though-). In this
life, you do things because they are expected of you. It's how things
are done. It is said that in this world, people are so detached from
what they are producing, they simply become pieces in a machine that
simply works. That was the case for Betty. She did not question,
things were just the way they were. There was a contract.

But her life was being shattered by social changes triggered by new
working habits. First of all, her husband, Don Draper, is working in
advertising sector, a 3rd wave creative white-collor job. He has all
the opportunities and the temptations that come with the job, along
with the desychronized, irregular working hours and lifestyle.

We mentioned before that Don Draper is a man torn; this fact is made
much more clearer through a literary device; Don has a past he is
trying to hide. The fact that this past is rooted in World War II is
no coincidence. This was the exact moment after which America started
to change dramatically, a watershed time period after which US's
"past" could not guide its future anymore. Don is a symbol, coming
from a past we cannot rely on, into a future that brings more
questions than answers.

Back to RFK assasination [1] - this event became last drop in a
torrent of bad news ripping through Draper household. Betty did her
part in her home, waiting for her husband, raising her kids, but the
world around her just did not seem to care. She could even partly
ignore the fact that her husband was cheating on her [2], treat this
event as an "outlier" in a linear world of nuclear families,
predictable lifesytles, but after RFK assasination (which came after
JFK assasination) you can see the dramatic change in her, she came to
the conclusion that the entire world had gone mad, and she started
asking the timeless question:

But what about me?

If the world was not following the same contract she had been
following, what was to become of her? Then she decides to leave Don
Draper. She decides to go after what she wants, instead of what
everyone (the system -family, friends, etc-) is expecting of her.

[1] JFK's and later RFK's assasinaton were a sign of military /
industrial complex's structure breaking down. For the first time, the
complex took out a president who was not suitable for them. But in
this system a president is supposed to be the head of the military /
industrial complex, hence the assasination caused a major problem for
the system's structure.

[2] Each society lives through 3rd wave changes through its own
culture codes. In America, the main cultural rift is between freedom
and prohibition. Hence when social order starts to break down, people
started living "free" (as in free sex) because the old way was to
"prohibit" self from doing such things. This rift could occur in
different places in different cultures.

---
