# Tax Avoidance

[J. Cochrane](https://johnhcochrane.blogspot.com/2017/10/corporate-tax-burden-again.html)

I think every economist in [the tax] debate admits, if some
reluctantly, that corporations pay no taxes.

[Financial Times](https://ftalphaville.ft.com/2017/10/31/2195336/the-most-elegant-corporate-tax-reform/)

American politicians are thinking about changing how they tax
businesses. There are good reasons to reform the existing system, but
unfortunately the proposals under consideration miss the mark.

An elegant solution, first seriously advocated by Dean Baker, should
get more attention. Instead of trying to collect regular payments from
businesses based on reported profits, the government should just
capitalise its expected tax take up front by demanding nonvoting
equity stakes.

People form businesses to make money. Unsurprisingly, governments want
to tax these people.

The question is how. Taxing income paid to workers is pretty
straightforward. Taxing explicit payments to investors — dividends and
interest — should also be easy to do. Same for capital gains when
stocks and bonds are sold at a profit.

But a lot of the value created by businesses never is paid out in
these ways. Companies might reinvest in growth, or retain earnings by
accumulating financial assets, or boost their net worth by paying down
their debt. The traditional answer is for governments to tax corporate
profits as a complement to other taxes on individuals.

This worked reasonably well in the past, but the share of total tax
paid by corporations has steadily dropped in America. [..]

One big reason is tax avoidance via “globalisation”. Just create a
subsidiary in a favourable jurisdiction, put your “intellectual
property” in the subsidiary, and have the subsidiary charge high
licensing fees to the rest of the company. Presto! All the profits end
up untaxed. (For much more on this, including the impact on the
balance of payments, you should read Brad Setser.)

Baker’s insight is that every stream of payments can be turned into an
asset. The government’s legal claim on corporate profits should
therefore be equivalent to some proportion of common
stock. Shareholders and managers ought to be indifferent between
today’s world, and a world where they are diluted by a new share class
gifted to the government in exchange for no longer having to pay tax.

There would be other benefits from this reform both to companies and
to the economy as a whole. As Baker puts it:

"There is no way for a corporation to escape its liability. A portion
of whatever profit it makes will automatically go to the
government. It also eliminates the enormous cost and waste associated
with complying with or avoiding the corporate income tax (there would
be some start-up and monitoring costs, of course, but nothing like
what current enforcement requires). And federal revenues will go up,
because companies will have incentive to do what is most profitable,
not what minimizes their tax liability"

Rickards

See book excerpts [link](road-to-ruin-rickards.html), [link](../../2016/04/death-of-money-rickards.html).

