# WTWRFN (Foragers, Farmers)

[Ian Morris](https://www.amazon.de/Why-West-Rules-Now-Patterns/dp/0312611692)

The early farmers of the Hilly Flanks [an area covering today's Iraq,
Syria, TR] transformed the way people lived [..]

Female foragers, who regularly carry their infants with them as they
walk thousands of miles every year gathering plants. Not surprisingly,
they do not want too many children [..] But the more they settled down
[into farming life] the less they needed to do this. Having more
babies in fact became a boon, providing extra labor, and recent
skeletal studies suggest that the average woman in an early farming
village, staying in one place with stores of food, gave birth to seven
or eight babies [..] The more food people grew, the more babies they
could feed [..]

[Researcher] Sahlins argued that foragers typically worked just
twenty-one to thirty-five hours per week—less than Paris’s industrial
laborers or even, I suspect, its students.. Their means were few but
their needs were fewer, making them, Sahlins concluded, “the original
affluent society.”

<a name='replaced'></a>

Most farmers expanding into new territory found foragers already
living there... Archaeological surveys suggest that the first farmers
in each region tended to settle in different areas from the local
foragers, almost certainly because the best farmland and the best
foraging grounds rarely overlapped. At least at first, farmers and
foragers may have largely ignored each other.

Eventually, of course, foraging did disappear. You will find few
hunters or gatherers today prowling the manicured landscapes of
Tuscany or Tokyo’s suburbs. Farming populations grew rapidly, needing
only a few centuries to fill up the best land, until they had no
option but to push into the (in their eyes) marginal territories of
the foragers [later either forager would became farmer, or were pushed
away to the edges of their continent through sheer numbers].

By 6500 Çatalhöyük [TR] had perhaps three thousand.  These were
villages on steroids, and they had all the problems that implies...
[P]eople simply dumped garbage and night soil in stinking heaps
between houses, to be trodden into the dust and mud. The filth would
have appalled hunter-gatherers but surely delighted rats, flies, and
fleas... Yet for all the squalor, this was clearly what people wanted.

<a name='ancestors'></a>

Little hunter-gatherer bands had had broad geographical horizons but
narrow social ones: the landscape changed but the faces did not. The
early farmer’s world was just the opposite. You might pass your whole
life within a day’s walk of the village where you were born, but what
a place it was—full of shrines where the gods revealed themselves,
festivals and feasts to delight the senses, and gossipy, nosy
neighbors in solid houses with plastered floors and waterproof roofs
[..]

By imposing such mental structures on their world, Hilly Flankers
were, we might say, domesticating themselves. They even remade what
love meant. [..]

To do well, people now needed property—a house, fields, and flocks,
not to mention investments like wells, walls, and tools. [..] Life
increasingly focused on small family groups, probably the basic unit
for transmitting property between generations. Children needed this
material inheritance, because the alternative was
poverty. Transmitting property became a matter of life and death [..]
There are signs of what can only be called an obsession with
ancestors. We perhaps see it as early as 10,000 BCE [..] as farming
developed, it escalated. Burying multiple generations of the dead
under house floors became common, mingling bodies in ways that seem to
express very physically the link between property and descent.[..]
Such intimacy with corpses makes most of us squeamish but clearly
mattered a lot to early farmers in the Hilly Flanks.

Most archaeologists think it shows that ancestors were the most
important supernatural beings. The ancestors had passed on property,
without which the living would starve; in return the living honored
them. Possibly ancestral rituals clothed the transmission of property
in a holy aura, justifying why some people owned more than
others. People may also have used skulls for necromancy, summoning
ancestors to ask when to plant, where to hunt, and whether to raid
neighbors [..]

<a name='hierarchy'></a>

[H]ierarchy developed fastest within households. I have already
observed that men and women had had different roles in foraging
societies, the former more active in hunting and the latter in
gathering, but studies of contemporary groups suggest that
domestication sharpens the sexual division of labor, tying women to
the home. The high mortality/high fertility regime required most women
to spend most of their lives pregnant and/or minding small children,
and changes in agriculture—changes that women themselves probably
pioneered—reinforced this.[..]

With so much at stake [for land / tools inheritance], men in modern
peasant cultures want to be sure they really are the fathers of the
children who will inherit their property. Foragers’ rather casual
attitudes about sex yield to obsessive concern with daughters’
premarital virginity and wives’ extramarital activities. Men in
traditional agricultural societies typically marry around the age of
thirty, after they have come into their inheritance, while women
generally marry around fifteen, before they have had much time to
stray. [..] By, say, 7500 BCE a girl would typically grow up under the
authority of her father, then, as a teenager, exchange it for the
authority of a husband old enough to be her father.

Marriage would become a source of wealth as those who already had good
lands and flocks would marry others in the same happy situation,
consolidating holdings. The rich got richer.

<a name='eastwest'></a>

[R]oughly the same things happened [after invention of agriculture 10k
years ago] in both East and West. Both regions saw the domestication
of dogs, the cultivation of plants, and domestication of large (by
which I mean weighing over a hundred pounds) animals. Both saw the
gradual development of “full” farming (by which I mean high-yield,
labor-intensive systems with fully domesticated plants and wealth and
gender hierarchy), the rise of big villages (by which I mean more than
a hundred people), and, after another two to three thousand years,
towns (by which I mean more than a thousand people). In both regions
people constructed elaborate buildings and fortifications,
experimented with protowriting, painted beautiful designs on pots,
used lavish tombs, were fascinated with ancestors, sacrificed humans.



