# Phase Transition - The Return

OK, big idea biznitch... where were we? So I read about these "big"
explanations it seemed like a lot of people like to borrow ideas from
Quantum Mechanics, to support some life philosophy about
unpredictability, all-life-choices-being-tried-out angle, "everything
that can be tried is happening in some universe". That's what the
famous QM double-slit experiment is all about right? An electron is
shot towards two slits, it seemingly goes through both of them at the
same time. Whatzup!

Scifi uses this idea to death - in any regular show they'll take one
of the main recurring characters, send him to a parallel world, and in
this other place dude is "different" - dressed in leather, has a goat
tee maybe, has one of those pants with a butt cut-out.. He is
superbad. QM in this form provides much fodder for this fairy tale of
wonderous possibilities, adventures. Surprise! Wow! Dude! Where is my
car?!!!

Newsflash: New findings suggest QM may actually be deterministic after
all. God does not play dice with the universe (1stein was right). At
the famous  Solvay meeting they told him to shut the hell up, Hawking
would later then say "not only does God play dice, he is a degenerate
gambler". I personally suspected something like this, oddly enough, I
did not dabble in QM math much, but I studied Nonlinear Dynamics and
Simulation (of which pseudorandom number generation is a big part -and
also deterministic-). In ND, also known as Chaos Theory, the equations
are nonlinear, but, at their core they are deterministic. Starting
from a = 0.0001 you compute the next state, then again, and 100 step
later totally depends on step 1.

Here is the catch however, make the starting condition 0.0002, 100
steps later looks radically different. Small changes build-up. That's
where the so-called "unpredictability" comes from -- we cannot predict
because we can never measure the initial condition precisely enough to
give us an accurate 100-step-ahead prediction. Why not? Well, tools
suck, whatever's being measured is too small etc.

But this is very different from saying "duude, the particle is
everywheeere and nowheeere... until is measured, then like, it's
there. The universe... is so vast [stoner accent]". 

Now - this "it's all crazy shit and all f**ed up", or "world of
wonderous possibilities" is responsible for much of the new wave in
the popular literature these days from Black Swan to Critical Mass to
Tipping Point. These authors, it seems, have long given up on trying
to understand anything, they are merely giving their readers the means
to be awed by it, and telegram their awesome awednesses to
others. This dont-explain-be-awed approach may actually be a new form
of fatalism -not in a good way kind of fatalism, some forms of going
with the flow can be good-. You can go to any direction with it, and
still sound somewhat intelligible. Take any world event, the Syrian
civil war for example, event X will happen and now you, the
intelligent reader with a wine glass in hand can say "well.. yes X
happened and blah was the tipping point". These critical points of
course can never be predicted, they can only be feared, and talked
about after the fact. Shit happens. We only rejoice about shit. We
cant do anything else.

Obviously noone who is someone who decides anything thinks this
way. Pros think in terms of end states: For Syria strategists would
ponder the various end states the country can land into. And these are
finite. They can be enumerated / thought about one by one. Syria with
Assad, or Syria without Assad. Syria with Assad and some power sharing
aggreement, or Syria with Assad and without a power sharing
aggreement. On and on it goes.. These states are finite in number
because most states are unlikely or next to impossible. There is no
end-state where Assad marries his gay cousin and runs away to Idaho,
settling down and baking cookies all day.  Not gonna happen. Then
these pros, once they flesh out these finite end-states, look at which
ones are viable, and through which actions which can be reached. They
dont twiddle their thumbs and await the "critical mass".

So what is deterministic? What is [pseudo] random? Going down to
smaller scale and predicting smaller things - near random, hard due to
measuring problem. At this scale things could well be random. Planets:
big, easier to predict. Electron: small, hard to predict (and
measure). Single person among millions: hard, too small. But measuring
that single person many times forming larger patterns out the "many":
easier [1]. Groups of people: easier. Groups of people in restricted
systems (i.e. politicians): much, much easier.

Free will: it's there, but guided by character attributes, they define
likes and dislikes. These likes, which are at emotional level, are
very strong.

Our profiling also shows (we shared examples of this many times)
people are on a development path, stuff that is not accomplished in
this path comes back to the person over and over again in different
forms. This repeat can be entertainingly varied, in an adventure game
kind of way. I remember playing a game called Deus Ex once (the only
adventure game I ever played until the end) and in one level I
remember I had done everything possible, talked to the street corner
guy, took a pack from the shady dude at a cafe, gave a student a pen,
but I had not found [important item ___ ] that'd allow me to go the
next level, so I am walking around in this huge city, back and forth,
nothing is happening. You are sort of stuck in this minimal
variation. Good times.

Links

[Predictable](predictable.md)



















