# Predictable

Example: Let's imagine 100 doors, and for person X the odds of going
from door to the next door is known. A to B=0.1, B to C=0.4, etc.. X
keeps switching according to these probabilities (he has a 100 sided
dice!). While at door B, he rolls the dice, and most likely he will
get C because 0.4 is high, but it can be any of the other doors. So
100 doors, lots of possibilities. Wonderous! Dude! Where is my
car???!!!

So let's say guy goes from door to door, and does this.. 10 times. Or
100.

What the hell: how about a billion times? Well, believe it or not, at
infinity, dude's transitions stabilize to a certain set states [geek]
a property of Markov matrices [/geek]. These can be calculated. Then,
another person Y can stand next to the door with highest probability
and at right at the time, when person X would come out, swings really
hard, chances are high that he'll connect with X's nose and knock him
out. [Geek] replace doors with Internet pages, this applied math
calculation is PageRank, the stability point can be calculated by a
simple eigenvector computation. This fact has been a big boon to
Linear Algebra teachers all around the world, now during class they
simply say 'what good are eigenvalues? Google uses them for search!'
(and the sleeping kid in the back of the room shakes and wakes up and
starts to listen) [/geek]. It is fascinating however with so many
choices at each step (100 but that could be millions as well) and
inifite many steps you get stability.

Dude!

