# Vlad

Putin's main profile attribute is called High Horse. As the name
suggests, a feeling of specialness, feeling superior to others,
ordering people around is part of their character build-up, and
something they need to get away from as it is the suboptimal route. It
can easily lead them to ruin.

Sometimes we also call this the Ataturk Profile -- because it was
shared by a certain Kemal A., the founder of Turkland. This makes
pointing out the negatives on P somewhat easier -- everything that was
wrong Kemal is wrong with this guy. KA was also given to bouts of
authoritarian tendencies, shifting things around just to exercise
authority (they feel like it), and known for being stubborn and
headstrong. There is another similarity as it relates to the man and
his country, but we'll get to that at the end.

The key to understanding these people is this -- their hidden (but
unfillable) desire is to be loved, madly, by a woman especially, and
by as many people as possible secondly, while this happens they want
to be at the center staaaage, with their special someone, they get all
this looove, adulation, they're under the spotlight and shit, there
are all these idiots around clapping madly, it's like so awesome. That
is the main idea. Fucking close curtains.

However this is exactly what they need to get away from. HH needs to
connect to others, noticing others' importance (such as other
countries, hello), and try to make decisions that are optimal for the
group. The bigger the better. Messing shit up for an entire region of
people while nominally gaining some tactical benefit for yours is not
cool. An oft observed attribute of this profile is a want for
excessive risk taking, in gambling, in love, or in other areas. They
have melodramatic tendencies, can also display arrogant responses, but
don't be confused, they will largely stem from fear.

So; wanting to be loved, be affirmed, while wanting to feel special is
a  bottomless hole for HH.  Vlad at Sochi for example -- there he
wanted to loooved, and be affiiiirmed (for his New Russia or whatever
the phuk he calls it) but he got the Ukranian situation blowing up in
his face instead. He was so sad. Pout.

Coming back to Kemal - in summary we could say HH is the profile of a
king, and this is the easy thing to do for them. Their development
path is not to be that, noticing equality and supporting others, and
assuming a less visible role actually; Now looking at history we can
see when Kemal was #1 his country was in dire straits. Same could be
said for Russia of 2000. IOW both leaders did what was required, used
their natural tendencies not their potential because their respective
countries hit rock bottom [1].

This is a relation we started to look at quite recently, if a country,
a group, or a company can push / propel / give chance people in line
with their development path, that is a good sign for that country
because that means there is enough bandwidth there for people
development.

But Russia still has the guy who is the natural king who should not
be. This suggests things are not going well for Russia (still?). Or,
things are better and others are still not being given a
chance. Either way, the reign of Putin must come to an end.

So on top of High Horse, another characteristic the man carries is
Above the Clouds. This one is interesting; it introduces a lightness
to the character (softening HH), making them more approachable,
appreciate abstract thinking, beauty, traveling, art, and, computers
(weird but true dunno why). AtC side of a person has a child-like,
Peter Pan quality.

The downside is mostly around issues of trust, and their fear of being
betrayed. Not knowing how much to give or to get, how intimate to
become and not, AtC interaction with others is becomes a hot and cold
thing - like a puppy who slowly approaches a stranger, only to draw
back, then approach, then draw back, it's an on and off, sure /
unsure, hesitant, guarded affair. They want to get out to the world,
relate and help others etc, but deep inside of these people's
subconscious, the "outside" is somehow threatening. Subconciously they
search for worlds of beauty and adventure, where the politics and
deceptions of the human world are left behind, or at least held at
bay. This can make AtC cynical about all forms of political
undertaking, if they cant control it.

Most AtC's I know also suffer from paranoia. Clearly we can see Putin
suffers from this ailment to the degree that he is probably unfit to
be a head of state. Paranoia is related to their trust issues, AtC
usually does feel safe enough to put aside their mental shields; and
acting on it makes things only worse. On relationships for example,
AtC assumes they're going to be left out, and to the degree they act
that like they expect it, they do get left out. But the reason was
their idioatic paranoia to begin with that became a self-fulfilling
prophecy.

In the negative, AtC can get messed up in three ways that can tear
them apart. One part can cause them to get stressed from thinking too
much, resulting in possible allergies; another makes them feel
scattered, dependent, and resentful, which compromises the adrenals
and nervous system; and another (as we mentioned) makes them sensitive
to feelings of betrayal and constricted around the heart area.

The overarching issue of AtC is this - they seek on the outside; in
the form of teachers, new experiences, adventures, etc.  but focus
needs to turn inward, being aware of what goes on between their own
ears, so to speak. They make hidden, incorrect assumptions about
trust, and can easily fall in the trap of misunderstanding. Being
explicit on things can improve matters, such as making clear
agreements, communicating so forth.

How would the interplay between HH and AtC be? One side is mild in
manners, other is an hard-ass. It is tough to answer this question. I
know of only one other person who has AtC coupled with an hard-ass
profile; he is an AtC and a Control Freak. CF has issues around,
well.. control, and they need to let go and learn to go with the flow
etc. 100% of the time they end up being MBTI Guardians also, which
should not be too surprising. So this person had both attributes
equally blended I think, and it was fascinating to watch them at play
actually, in this one person - yes, the asshole side could come out
depening on stress levels, but it would not "stay too long", because
the positive of CF and the natural lightness of AtC would calm things
down. Line of work made a difference too; in his younger years as a
manager the said person was more of an hard-ass, after retirement,
working for himself he is much happier and more of an AtC perhaps.


And, "coupled with sensationalism, a turbulence of emotion can be
experienced which they are advised to protect against because it can
easily overwhelm their minds".

Under stress they are prone to be nebulous, dreamy, and irrational.

Another. Attribute #281.

They have big egos, and, in an odd kind of way, their identity rides
on a sense of personal freedom. In degenerate cases they dont want to
do anything others want them to do because they wont be "free" that
way and their identity is stulted -in their mind- if they go along.

They question authority, tradition [fine] but paradoxically they are
quite set in their ways.

They also have a love-hate relationship with their own
uniqueness. Most of the time they will be very proud of their original
personalities. Other times, they feel a bit left out for being
"different". So I guess the incoherent nonsense Vlad mumbles about the
West can be tied to this attribute more than any other. Guy wants to
be unique, be free ... to mess up a neighboring country for example,
while claiming to have a New Russia (new identity, different) which is
actually Old Russia, Soviet style. He is like "treat us as if we are
unique". But not too different either. It's like, understand us even
when we dont know what we mean.

Errr - grow up.. or something?

Attribute #270.

In his youth he was humbled in some way, he could not express his free
will, in a direct way; the expression of their ego was thwarted, he
was painfully aware of they wanted but did not always get. The biggest
advice to people with #270 is three words: control your impulses.

[1] To his credit, Kemal also managed to pull himself out of the
limelight most of the time later in his reign and empower his comrade
in arms and friend Ismet as PM. Internationally he also tried to
create win/win situations (something an HH needs to strive for).
