# String Theory, Multiverse, The Large Hadron Collider

Hossenfelder, *Lost in Math*

Cosmologist Paul Steinhardt calls the multiverse idea 'baroque,
unnatural, untestable and, in the end, dangerous to science and
society.' According to Paul Davies, it is 'simply naive deism dressed
up in scientific language.' George Ellis warns that 'proponents of the
multiverse… are implicitly redefining what is meant by ‘science.’' 8
David Gross finds that 'it smells of angels.' For Neil Turok, it’s
'the ultimate catastrophe.' And science writer John Horgan complains
that 'multiverse theories aren’t theories—they’re science fictions,
theologies, works of the imagination unconstrained by evidence.'

[Peter Voit](https://www.math.columbia.edu/~woit/wordpress/?p=12604)

Multiverse mania started seriously among string theorists around 2003,
with a defining event Susskind’s February 2003 The Anthropic Landscape
of String Theory. At the time I was finishing up writing what became
the book “Not Even Wrong”.. For many years I found it impossible to
believe that this pseudo-scientific point of view would get any
traction.. It has become clear recently that we’ve now reached that
end-point. From the new video of his discussion with Rovelli, it’s
clear that David Gross has given up. No more complaints about the
multiverse from him, and his vision of the future has string theory
solving QCD 80 years from now, nothing about it ever telling us
anything about where the Standard Model comes from

Avi Loeb

Mainstream theoretical physicists now widely accept the study of
extra-spatial dimensions beyond the three we are all familiar with..
This is despite the fact that there is no evidence for any such extra
dimensions. Similarly, a hypothetical multiverse—an infinite number of
universes all existing simultaneously in which everything that could
conceivably happen is happening—occupies many of our planet’s most
admired minds, again despite the fact that there is no evidence that
such a thing is possible.

[P]hysicists [should] measure their success by how well their ideas
align with data rather than by how popular those ideas are.. But that
is not what we discover when we survey the landscape of theoretical
physics.  Fashions frequently dictate funding, sometimes despite
anything close to a commensurate return on investments.

Despite the absence of experimental evidence, the mathematical ideas
of supersymmetry, extra-spatial dimensions, string theory, Hawking
radiation, and the multiverse are considered irrefutable and
self-evident by the mainstream of theoretical physics. In the words of
a prominent physicist at a conference that I attended: “These ideas
must be true even without experimental tests to support them, because
thousands of physicists believe in them and it is difficult to imagine
that such a large community of mathematically gifted scientists could
be wrong.”

But go beyond the groupthink and look more closely at these ideas. For
instance, supersymmetry. This theory, which postulates that all
particles have partners, is not as natural as prominent theorists
predicted it would be. The latest data from the Large Hadron Collider
at CERN did not find any of the evidence expected at the energy scales
it probed to support supersymmetry.  Other speculative ideas
pertaining to the nature of dark matter, dark energy, extra
dimensions, and string theory have yet to be even tested.

Imagine that the data suggesting that Oumuamua is extraterrestrial
technology is stronger than the data suggesting supersymmetry theory
is valid. What might follow? Just a bit under five billion dollars was
spent to construct the Large Hadron Collider, a particle accelerator
built in hopes of attaining confirming evidence of supersymmetry, and
running it costs another one billion dollars a year. If the scientific
consensus eventually gives up on the theory, it will do so after vast
expense and generations of effort. Until we have invested similarly in
the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, flat declarations about
what Oumuamua is and isn’t should be judged accordingly.

A host of theories beyond supersymmetry—the multiverse leaps to mind—
are given thoughtful, respectful attention in and out of the academy
despite the absence of evidence for them. That should give us pause,
and not because of the absence of evidence. Rather, it should concern
us because of what it reveals about the scientific enterprise itself...

An earlier generation of theoretical physicists was open to the
humility of seeing their theories proven wrong by experimental
data. But a new culture, one that thrives in its own theoretical sauce
and exercises influence over award committees and funding agencies, is
populated by advocates of popular yet unproven paradigms. When
scientists double down on supersymmetry despite the Large Hadron
Collider finding no evidence for it or when they insist that the
multiverse must exist despite there being no data to support the
theory, they are wasting precious time and money and talent. And we
have not only finite funds to spend, but finite time...

A scientific culture that has not learned this lesson—that does not
require external verification in observable, confirmable data and that
advocates for ideas deemed inherently correct due to their
mathematical beauty—strikes me as a culture at risk of losing its
grounding. Getting data and comparing it to our theoretical ideas
provides a reality check and tells us that we are not
hallucinating. What is more, it reconfirms what is central to the
discipline.  Physics is not a recreational activity intended to make
us feel good about ourselves. Physics is a dialogue with nature, not a
monologue. We are supposed to have skin in the game and make testable
predictions, and this requires that scientists put themselves at risk
of error.

