# The Myth of the Liberal International Order

In the late 1700s, the philosopher Immanuel Kant put forth a vision of
universal peace in which nations would subordinate themselves to
principles and entities that would make this possible. Many shared
this vision, with good reason. It was believed to have “norms, rules
and institutions” that were respected, creating a system that was
stable, predictable and able to manage disagreements without creating
conflict. Many believe we had achieved that order, which they called
the liberal international order, and that it’s now dying. They mourn
the loss.

The problem is that the liberal order never really existed. And their
nostalgia is dangerous if what they pine for is a fiction.

Not that there weren’t attempts to create such an order. There were
three tries in the past century. The first came after the end of World
War I. Europe was horrified by what it had done to itself. The United
States introduced the idea of a League of Nations that would manage
international friction to prevent future self-destructive
efforts. Except no nation was prepared to surrender its interests to
an international organization, and in any case the organization had no
real power to impose its will. The United States turned out to be the
most honest among all nations in this regard, declining to join it in
spite of the fact that its architect was the American president,
Woodrow Wilson. Other nations joined; joining was easy, since none of
them had any intention of obeying the league’s edicts anyway. What
made the entire idea absurd was that most of the members were imperial
powers with colonies, and their interest was in creating “norms, rules
and institutions” for ruling and exploiting those colonies. The League
of Nations was primarily but not exclusively a European club, and it
lasted only as long as it took European powers who opposed the
post-war peace to recover and reassert themselves.

The second attempt came after World War II with a more ambitious
entity, the United Nations. The League of Nations made clear that no
country would really abide by an international organization, so the
U.N. created the Security Council, comprising the United States, the
Soviet Union, France, the United Kingdom and China, which could block
anything its members didn’t like. And since there was always at least
one country at the table that didn’t like something, the U.N. could
never really achieve its purpose: stopping wars. (Only once did it do
so, in Korea, when the Soviets boycotted the Security Council.)

The United Nations created some tools that major powers might use,
things like the World Health Organization and UNICEF and so forth. But
the international order, to the extent that it existed, was formed
primarily from alliances created in preparation for war against the
other. One half of the structure was the Warsaw Pact, an international
institution with rules and norms that were not especially liberal.

The other half comprised the allies of the United States, bundled
together in a variety of international institutions. There was, of
course, NATO. There was the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. There was U.S.- and U.K.-supported economic integration,
starting with the European Coal and Steel Community, which in turn
ultimately became the European Union. They were all liberal
institutions with rules and norms.[..]

All the while, the prospect of nuclear holocaust hung over the world
like a cloud of smoke. The Cold War didn’t bring about the end of the
world, of course, but its failure to do so wasn’t the result of the
strength of our international institutions. It was because the United
States and the Soviet Union tried very hard not to engage in nuclear
war. As always, with the end of the Cold War, the victors believed two
things. The first thing was that they would be able to reshape the
world as they chose. The second was that all reasonable people would
want to be just like them. [..] The problem is in the vast ambition of
the victors, who believe they can defy history with the administration
of an unruly world. This is not liberalism. This was the hubris of the
victors.

---

What is known as "globalization" is actually *Pax Americana*
rebranded. Petrodollar system meant that countries are forced to sell
their oil in dollars or else. China was courted, in fact pushed to
become what it is today, to contain Russia, starting with Nixon years,
also beneficial for US business was the ability to have access to
slave labor. Noone cares about any rules, the freedom of trade, etc,
Everyone does what they think will work for them.

See also:

[Globaloney](../../2011/04/globaloney.md)

[Global E-mail Patterns Reveal “Clash of Civilizations”](../../2013/07/global-e-mail-patterns-reveal-clash-of.md)

[Production, GDP, Globalization](../../2017/08/production-gdp-globalization.md)

