# Week 36 

---

üòÜ üòÜ 

WION: "Queen Consort Camilla to get Queen Elizabeth II's famous Kohinoor crown"

---

France 24: "From mistress to Queen Consort: the redemption of Camilla"

---

Plus low leader approv would increase MP chances of loss, they have
every reason to vote the leader out. 

---

People also vote for parliament members, within the same party as the
head, and those members have the ability to change the leader.. If
people accept the former they also should accept the latter.

"People vote with a particular party head in mind, changing that
midway is against democracy"

---

Oz new lib leader says: "We aren't the 'Moderate Party'. We aren't the
'Conservative Party'. We are Liberals. We are the Liberal Party".

More emph on ideology.. It's a thing

---

At UK PMQ one side says I'm for high tax, other side says I'm for low
tax. Boring deadlock. Sides sticking to ideologies.. Agree to
disagree. I like it.

---

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/feb/08/queen-power-british-law-queens-consent)

---

Clearly these inbred people still have some power, not just
symbolic.. Noone goes this length at pomp for institution with no
power.

---

'Have already been preparing'.. ? This royal succession is serious business

"@MarkusMannheim

The Treasury and the Royal Australian Mint have already been preparing
Australia's new coins, which will feature the visage of King Charles
III"

---

"@Kore_Infra

Did you know, that a standard Kore system can produce up to 1,000
kilograms of UltraGreen Hydrogen‚Ñ¢ per day, which is enough to fuel
over 1,400 [FCEVs]?"

---

"@socalgas

Transportation causes [much] greenhouse gas emissions in
California. That is why we support @Kore_Infra in the production of
innovative waste-to-energy technology"

---

Yes that's it.. Ryan Reynolds reminds me of Adam Sandler.  He should
do a remake of the *The Wedding Singer*.

---

H2 Central: "US DoE seeks to fund nuclear hydrogen production and use projects"

---

Nippon.com: "Russian, Chinese Warships Fire Machine Guns in Sea of
Japan.. The firing, which took place in waters outside Japan's
exclusive economic zone, seems to be part of the Vostok large-scale
military exercises that Russia is conducting in its Far Eastern region"

---

*Shaft 2019*. "It's your duty to please that booty".

---

Analyst speculates China using B&R loans to turn yuan into a dollar
alternative; the loans were given in dollars, but now China could say
"you can pay us back in yuan, at a discount if you chose to do so".

Debtors could prefer that, creating additional demand for yuan raising
its value.. Actually B&R could be useful for this purpose alone. They
got rid of the dollars they don't want, and created yuan demand in
return.

---

Compensation vs Profits graph

[[-]](../../2021/01/stats.html#compprof)

---

Nordstream 1 is cut, how about TiggerStream?  That pipeline is still
supplying gas to Europe.

---

The Chile fail was surprising because I'd read the Prez is the master
of wheeling and dealing.. Could have no aggreement with strong left
elements in it? At least something not hostile to left legislation
later on, ensuring basic rights now, removing the fascist shit pronto?

---

Reuters: "Chile's Boric reshuffles cabinet after voters reject new constitution"

---

Talks about co-firing coal with ammonia / H2, and green
H2. Grand. Adani clearly sees where things are going..

---

Adani Group: "To further reduce the emission-intensity, Adani Power
Limited.. plans to blend biomass with coal and is investigating pilots
for co-firing of hydrogen and green ammonia, as well as pilots for
carbon capture and utilization.

Green hydrogen holds a strong promise for India‚Äôs future energy
self-reliance. It is not too difficult to imagine a scenario where
green hydrogen at a price of less than $1/kg ‚Äî coupled with the
projected reduction in the cost of combined cycle hydrogen turbines
and fuel cells ‚Äî will not only allow the country to make a transition
from fossil fuels, but will also free India from the debilitating
financial burden of energy imports.

This opportunity was signalled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he
announced the National Hydrogen Mission in August 2021 on India‚Äôs
Independence Day. This ambitious plan builds upon India‚Äôs target of
450 GW of renewables by 2030. It sends a strong signal for demand for
green hydrogen via mandates in sectors such as fertilizers and
refining, provides for viability gap funding and supply-side
incentives, such as waivers on import duty for electrolysers, as well
as manufacturing incentives to assemble and localize electrolyser
manufacturing. Addressing the UN General Assembly, Prime Minister Modi
also stated his ambition for India to become one of the largest green
hydrogen hubs in the world"

---

"Indian billionaire [Gautam Adani] closes in on Bezos with 1,000% stock surge"

---

*Solomon Kane* ‚≠ê ‚≠ê ‚≠ê ‚≠ê ‚≠ê The vibe is reminiscent of *Van Helsing*
but still unique, good story

---

"Oxford quantum physicist Nikita Gourianov tore into the quantum
computing industry this week, comparing the 'fanfare' around the tech
to a financial bubble.. Despite billions of dollars being poured into
quantum computing, Gourianov argues, the industry has yet to develop a
single product that's actually capable of solving practical
problems... Contemporary quantum computers are also 'so error-prone
that any information one tries to process with them will almost
instantly degenerate into noise,' he [said]...

Despite the industry's less-than-stellar results, investors are still
funneling untold sums into quantum computing ventures. 'In essence,
the quantum computing industry has yet to demonstrate any practical
utility, despite the fanfare,' Gourianov wrote. 'Why is then so much
money flowing in? Well, it is mainly due to the fanfare.' The money,
he argues, is coming from investors who typically don't have 'any
understanding of quantum physics,' while 'taking senior positions in
companies and focusing solely on generating fanfare.'

In short, Gourianov believes it's only a matter of time until the
'bubble will pop' and the 'funding will dry up' ‚Äî at which point, it's
already too late"

---

\#H2 \#Canada \#DE

[[-]](https://twitter.com/JustinTrudeau/status/1562246803784974337)

---

Strange.. very strange..

"[09/04] A mass stabbing occurred in 13 locations.. Saskatchewan,
Canada, in which 11 people were killed and 19 others injured"

---

Truss was the better campaigner.. That became clear at those
one-on-one interviews. There is journo, candidate, and live audience
but the format was geared towards the questioner. Sunak had a tendency
to forgo the journo, and say something to rile up the audience, as if
in an effort to drown out question.. Then you sorta break the format,
the questioner is annoyed, that reflects badly on you. Maybe not for
people in the audience but others watching through broadcast would
pick this up.. Gave the impression of a lack of media management
skills. Truss handled one-on-ones better, spoke direcly to
questioner. Also overall messaging was consistent.

---

Online digital event \#G√©n√©rationHydrog√®ne, I like the poster

[[-]](twimg/Fb5xqlFWAAA8SDH.jpg)

---

"@JohnCleese

Amazon offered my wife a book they thought she 'might be interested in'

It was my autobiography"

---

CNBC: "Apple is gaining on Facebook and Google in online ads after iOS
privacy change, report shows"

---

Parties sticking to ideologies matters because people don't vote in
policies, they vote out people. Ergo when a new admin comes in, voters
should automatically get a different way of governing through that
different party. If voters are switching between globalist centrist
cuck \#1 vs globalist centrist cuck \#2, that's not a change.

---

Cowboys.. they've all become cowboys for America

Al Jazeera: "Israel‚Äôs shifting narratives on the killing of Shireen
Abu Akleh.. Israel has now concluded that it is 'highly possible' one
of its soldiers killed Shireen Abu Akleh"


---

Al Monitor: "Israel concedes soldier likely shot Al Jazeera journalist"

---

Al Jazeera: "China registers hottest August since records began"

---

H2 Fuel News: "BMW begins manufacturing hydrogen fuel cell systems for iX5 SUV"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Bosch pours $200M into hydrogen truck fuel cells.. The
company plans to begin manufacturing the stacks by 2026 at a facility
in South Carolina'

---

Peter Voit: [See] [The quantum computing bubble](https://www.ft.com/content/6d2e34ab-f9fd-4041-8a96-91802bab7765) 
at the Financial Times, where Nikita Gourianov argues that there‚Äôs a
speculative bubble going on in this field, [he says]:

'Well, when exactly the bubble will pop is difficult to say, but at
some point the claims will be found out and the funding will dry up. I
just hope that when the music stops and the bubble pops, the public
will still listen to us physicists'...

I think Gourianov makes an important point for physicists to keep in
mind. Having this sort of hype blow up in physicist‚Äôs faces is not
going to help with the credibility problems physics already has with
the public due to decades of hype about non-existent breakthroughs in
fundamental physics

---

The ABC hasta la vista comment was funny because BJ said earlier "I'll
be back"

---

Nuclear fission is also free energy in many ways, the ratio of energy
obtained with energy applied is immensely large. It is possible to get
something for nothing.

---

That sounds like free energy..  No additional energy input is applied,
when the catalyst splits water, is not reduced itself in the process
so it could do the splitting forever creating energy.

H2 Fuel News: "[Researchers] at UCSC [found] a way to complete [water
splitting for H2 generation] process at room temperature, without the
requirement of the electric input. They have done so through the
development of a special aluminum composite that causes a reaction
with the water at room temperature. Aluminum is naturally a reactive
material that will cause the oxygen to split away from water
molecules, allowing the H2 to remain...

The researchers discovered that by applying an easily created
composite of aluminum and gallium, the aluminum will react with water
even at room temperature, resulting in the production of H2 without
CO2 emissions"

---

Crude is indeed down

[[-]](../../2019/05/energstats.html)

---

CNBC: "Gas prices are falling ‚Äî Here's why it's happening.. Some
states.. suspended their gas taxes, which artificially pushes prices
lower. But the main reason for the fall is the decline in oil
prices. Crude is the single largest factor influencing gas prices,
accounting for more than 50% of what we pay at the pump"

---

SCMP: "Sinopec sets green hydrogen goals to help China reach carbon
neutrality by 2060.. China‚Äôs largest refiner aims to have an installed
capacity to produce 120,000 tonnes of green hydrogen a year by the end
of 2025"

---

If this election was about selecting the most un-BJ person, that was
actually Truss. Sunak's attitude was more like BJ, energetic speaking,
a whatever it takes attitude..

---

Likely wont be a need to die anywhere, new PM can be more popular than
BJ for the mere fact she is not BJ.

---

Why did Tories under BJ went after working class votes? Some of that
is due to Brexit.. Brexit could only be sold to the working class
(they were duped obviously), the EU was an "elite thing" and once it
passed, Tories were now 'stuck' with their new constituency, different
than their usual.. With BJ as PM they could appeal to them due to his
personality, but that all put the pro-business conservatives in a
funk..

Hopefully the new PM will act more a con, and end this bizarre
charade. If you will lose as a con, lose as a con. Die on that hill.

---

üòÇ üòÇ 

ABC AU: "Hasta la vista, Boris"

---

Truss it is eh

---

H2 Central: "China takes aim at leadership in hydrogen fuel vehicle
industry..

The hydrogen fuel vehicle sector in China is starting to accelerate as
that country, already the largest H2 producer in the world, sees its
companies and local governments come together with new technology
advancements and supportive policies...

China is expected to have 50,000 H2-powered cars and trucks on its
roads by the close of 2025.

This prediction was issued in March by the National Development and
Reform Commission and the National Energy Administration in China"

---

Without OSS most of those hip Silicon Valley companies would not
exist.. *Free* makes the world go around..

---

"Gartner says that over 95% of the IT enterprises across the globe use
Open Source Software for their mission-critical IT workloads, whether
they are aware of it or not"

---

Chilean constitution proposal rejected; thought leaders there probably
thought the prop was trying to bite more than it could chew. Chilean
existing consitution dates back to Pinochet era, I'm sure their left
see it as fascist, the political consensus however wasn't ready for
this change.

---

"@samuelmoyn

'In the end, the U.S. military is the world‚Äôs anti-fascist insurance
policy.' [referring to [this](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2022/09/liberal-democrat-military-support-ukraine-trump/671328/) article]. 
I know now that I lived in vain"

---

Comment on oil price cap 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/ZNAhwYkW48o?t=802)

---

A key neocon who sold the Iraq War, R. Kaplan, regrets it. One of the
most visible 180 degree turns among the neo-cons.. I appreciate the
honesty.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/E28b0uO1I_s?t=346)

---

Less money in pocket. Protest.

"@pawelwargan

70,000 people took to the streets of Prague in a mass protest.. They
demanded neutrality in the war and action on energy prices"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/pawelwargan/status/1566182916975099912)

---

[Link](../../2018/12/the-road-to-oblivion.html#linc1)

---

Rep condemns divisiveness and refers to Abraham Lincoln again :) This
talking point just keeps on giving

---

To understand voters you need to squint, imagine there is fog and you
are looking through it... It's like the dog in the *Simpsons*. In one
episode they showed how the dog perceives the world; people would
talk, then they show his perception, the dog would hear "blah blah
blah blah", once in a while he'd hear something he wld understand like
"sit", then he sits. Otherwise it's just blah blah blah blah

---

JB net approval rose to -10%. Improvement. Laws passed, "stuff is
happening" so in the voter mind it could translate to "there is
forward momentum". Gasoline prices are falling, they can surely
understand "more money in my pocket".

---


FinancialPost "[06/2022] Zombie firms face slow death as era of easy
credit ends.. Zombie firms in the Russell 3000 have plunged 36 per
cent over the past year on average"

---

MarketWatch: "Beware of ‚Äòzombie‚Äô companies running rampant in the
stock market.. A total of 19%, or 571 companies, in the Russell 3000
Index are considered unviable"

---

"@divbyzero

My son, a first-year college students, just called me to say he is
going to LaTeX his math notes. ("How do you do piecewise
functions?"). So I had to send him my LaTeX cheat sheet"

---

"Compliment fishing"

---

Growth potential of a country has an upper bound. Given a skillset
level, know-how, labor, access to materials, growth can reach a
certain amount, no further.  Any new money that exceeds that growth
potential will be inflationary. 

---

Credit to businesses can be inflationary.. This is key; most, for some
reason, exclusively focus on government spending a view goaded by MSM
likely to deflect the attention from the real source of money printing - credit.
When businesses go to banks for credit the bank does not use customers'
savings to hand out loans - they'll just print the money.
Once that money makes it to people's pockets through wages, if
in excess amounts, it becomes inflationary.

---

"Total assets on the Fed‚Äôs weekly balance sheet as of July.. fell by
$22 billion from the prior week, and by 74 billion dollars from the
peak in April, to 8.89 trillion.. as the Fed‚Äôs quantitative tightening
(QT) has kicked off'

---

VOA News: "India and China to Take Part in Joint Military Drills with Russia"

---

H2 Central: "ADNOC sends first low-carbon ammonia shipment from the
UAE to Germany... Demonstration cargo is first of several test cargoes
bound for Hamburg in Germany as ADNOC expands strategic energy
partnership across the hydrogen value chain"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Toyota is developing a hydrogen fuel cell powertrain for big rigs, and <a href="https://twitter.com/AutoweekUSA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AutoweekUSA</a> recently went along for a ride to test it out. Read more about their experience. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/cleanenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#cleanenergy</a> <a href="https://t.co/MeVrdp4i46">https://t.co/MeVrdp4i46</a></p>&mdash; Linde plc (@Lindeplc) <a href="https://twitter.com/Lindeplc/status/1566034023096500225?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 3, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Apparenty a lot of raw data on RU/UKR war comes from a group of
Russian journalists called Rybar, they publish on Telegram.  They have
good info indicating inside access, so far reporting is deemed
to be accurate.

---

It's good stuff, makes for a hearty soup

"One of the oldest foods in the Eastern Mediterranean, *trahana*
[Asia Minor *tarhana*] was traditionally made in August as an
ingenious method of preserving milk for the cold winter months by
combining the dairy with the wheat and leaving in the hot summer
sun to dry over a few days. Once dried, it was broken into
granules and could be stored for months"

---

Pandas is part of much of what we do here. Immensely useful open
source software thanks to Wes McKinney. 

"@wesmckinn

The first copies of Python for Data Analysis 3e [about Pandas] are
rolling off the presses!"

---

*Haskalah* is a 19th century phenomenon, started in Europe, not
anywhere else. 

---

Of course the new arrivals innovated, they were bunch of Europeans,
with all the know-how that comes with it... Remember *Schindler's
List* (based on a true story), all those factory workers he saved,
well, those workers ran his factory, they had to know-how to do it, a
knowledge bequeathed on them for the simple fact of being in the West.
After WWII survivors fled, some went to Israel. Now Israelis became
"cowboys" for the Americans but they largely benefited from the
knowledge of all Western Renaissance.

---

1937 predates the foundation of Israel itself. Water is crucial..  

"[Founded in 1937] Mekorot is the national water company of Israel and
the country's top agency for water management"

---

Thanks to desalination. 

"Once drought-stricken, Israel is now a water-surplus nation"

---
