# Week 42 

ROCKED IT

H2 Central: "NamX Rocks the Paris Motor Show With a Hydrogen Powered
SUV Concept Using Removable Tanks"

---

"@nelhydrogen

We've broken our order size record, for the second time in four
months! We have entered into a contract for alkaline electrolyser
equipment from Australian company @WoodsideEnergy - the contract has a
total value of about [$57 million]"

---

NYT: "Speaker Nancy Pelosi could be succeeded by Representative Kevin
McCarthy of California if Republicans take control of the House"

---

H2 Central: "[University of New South Wales] Engineers retrofit diesel
engine for clean hydrogen combustion.. The scientists claim to have
used the H2 in a dual-fuel injection system and boosted efficiency 26
percent"

---

Arab News: ‚Äú[Macron said] 'In a spirit of great friendship, we will
say to our American and Norwegian friends: You‚Äôre super, you supply us
with energy and gas, but one thing that can‚Äôt go on for too long is us
paying four times more than the price you sell to your industry.. That
is not exactly the meaning of friendship'"

---

[Link](ruskibrewski.jpg)

---

Ruski Brewski. That's a good name for a bar, or microbrewery

---

Fuckin Ruski. Will their tech save the climate now?

---

Can generate lots of H2 with that kind of power.. Near limitless clean
fuel from RU. China can supply the electrolyzers.  Boom. Pipe it
anywhere.

---

Finland has some waste storage afaik.. France, US probably have them
too. 

---

And everyone gave their spent fuel to Russia? Now they can be the
biggest supplier on that too [facepalm].

---

First Post: "[W]e are talking about the..  reactor being completely
switched to uranium-plutonium MOX fuel. That reactor is standing at
the Beloyarsk nuclear power station, placed in the Urals mountains at
the border between Europe and Asia. The switch took several years, but
now the totally revolutionary reactor is giving power to consumers.

And that, my friends, means that Russia has achieved a closed circuit
of getting nuclear energy, asking for no raw materials like uranium
(or oil, or gas). That reactor works on the old stocks of spent
nuclear fuel, which is not just abundant, it will last us for several
thousand years. Oh, and in the future, there will be no such thing as
spent fuel, in need of stocking in some remote places. Every scrap of
it will be reprocessed..

Russia has been paid heavily by many nuclear powers to stock that
spent fuel, so now we have plenty"

[[-]](https://www.firstpost.com/opinion-news-expert-views-news-analysis-firstpost-viewpoint/goodbye-oil-gas-and-alternative-energy-too-russias-breakthrough-seeks-energy-from-spent-nuclear-fuel-11486371.html)

---

This reactor works on spent nuclear fuel BTW, the toxic waste from
used uranium. That waste used to cause storage problems right? This
new tech will be able to reuse it. Two birds with one stone.

World Nuclear News: "[Russian] Beloyarsk nuclear power plant.. resumed
operations after being fully loaded with uranium-plutonium mixed oxide
(MOX) fuel"

---

"@HydrogenCouncil

Belgium's Hydrogen Strategy 2.0 is out laying a bold vision for the
country as a #H2Hub and putting forward a whole-system approach to
\#hydrogen deployment"

---

He basically said don't rely on us to replace Russian gas

FT: "[The head of Qatar's state gas company] warned that he could not
envisage a future where 'zero Russian gas' flowed to Europe"

---

If there's compounding in play, the resulting values of a measurement
are usually 'anormal'. With trade I'm sure countries build on existing
trades to bring in more, money pulls in more money, stuff just builds
on itself. 

---

.. which is the definition of average... But, the statement only works
if the value is distributed normally (Gaussian, bell curve). With
things such as wealth, and as we saw, trade, half the values are not
below (or above) average.

Steven Wright: ‚ÄúHalf the people you know are below average.‚Äù 

---

The crazy part is not who's on the trade map, but who isn't. In the
filtered map (of big traders) there is a massive contiguous block of
countries that have no lines going into them. The block starts from
Romania, Serbia goes to East to Pakistan, Afghanistan, in the South to
the entirety of Africa, in the North to Finland and Norway.

---

US-CH, US-MX, US-CA trade rels are all half a *trillion* USD worth. US
clearly wanted deep trade ties with the two, did 90s NAFTA with CA,MX.
CH is halfway around the world, but the trade was just as high.

---

Prelim analyis

[[-]](../../2022/10/world-commerce.html)

---

Found yearly SKU level import/export data between countries. Oh yeah.

---

Matlock: "Why the US must press for a ceasefire in Ukraine"

[[-]](https://responsiblestatecraft.org/2022/10/17/on-ukraine-the-us-is-on-the-hook-to-find-a-way-out/)

---

This fact is so obvious that coal mining accident data before/after
regulation is used as a pedestrian example in statistics - in the
subject of change point analysis. You look at the distribution of
accidents and try to find where distribution shifts from one to
another. Most methods will find a value near 1887 which is exactly
when Coal Mines Regulation Act of 1887 was passed.

"How do we know better regulation improves coal mining accidents?"

---

The Soviet Elsgoltz book is legendary - they really knew how to teach
Calculus. I have a digital copy now. 

---

Bolywood action movie line: "If you are bad, I'm your dad". Hah :)

---

"@PininfarinaSpA

The new brand NAMX will introduce the \#Pininfarina-designed HUV,
hydrogen-powered SUV [using] removable capsules"

---

"@AnnajahFaouzi

Part One - The End.

\#Namx \#Hydrogen \#Climatechange"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/AnnajahFaouzi/status/1579254941897543680)

---

Another company, Peace of Meat (great name BTW)

[[-]](../../2022/06/lab-grown-meat.html#peaceofmeat)

---

More on this space, Mission Barns

[[-]](../../2022/06/lab-grown-meat.html#missionbarns)

---

Animal fat is great - it's healthy, and necessary. Cultivated animal
fat is even better, without the destructive farming side effects.

"[Startup Hoxton Farms' process] begins by taking a 'harmless handful
of stem cells' from an animal such as a cow or pig and placing them
inside a freezer. There is then enough supply of these cells which
means the animal is no longer needed...Similar to the equipment used
in a brewery, these cells are encouraged to multiply in a cultivator
which then kickstarts the production process [of animal fat]"

---

People always made fun of Italy about their change of governments..
Look at UK now..

---

Truss out. Is UK "Ready for Rishi"?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Christ</p>&mdash; Hugh Laurie (@hughlaurie) <a href="https://twitter.com/hughlaurie/status/1582859649862496257?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 19, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@VergaraLautaro

PhD student attending first big conference, with advisor"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/VergaraLautaro/status/1579483024391307265)

---

\#Tires

[[-]](twimg/FfP0I84WIAENAED.jpg)

---

Wilshire index is down to 181, less overvaluation 

[[-]](../../2021/01/stats.html#wilshire)

---

\#Waya Floating City, Homes. Pyramid shape is a good idea; can help
with storms, waves.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/hZl2J47yruE?t=419)

---

If the left doesn't deliver them, some of their issues will be stolen
by others, even by right-wing nationalists, then we end up with
"nationalist socialists". And we all know the abbreviation for those
words don't we?

---

That is what the left should give you, not constant war and mediocre
half-solutions.

Bus Driver in Brasil: "I voted for Bolsonaro in 2018, because the
economy was in the dumps, I changed my vote to Lula after I survived a
heart attack this year, thanks to the public hospital he built next to
my home"

---

Yo, who gets hit in the head by lightning? Rough #SummitFear

---

*Summit Fever* üëç The Batman üëé

---

The IR gem on that is "countries have armies, in Pakistan the army has a country"

---

I think at first he thought the interviewer was making a joke, then
realized he wasn't, guy was just clueless

---

Interviewer asks Pak FM "do you think the army is too involved
in politics?" and he just laughs

---

H2 View: "Hexagon Purus has said its subsidiary, Wystrach, has secured
a framework agreement to deliver hydrogen distribution systems to a
leading European producer of green hydrogen"

---

It is said new admisson and unanimity issues go hand in hand. Can't
admit new members if existing members are wary they'd hold off
important decisions with their vote.. To get over the deadlock, voting
scheme can be changed. Although I admit I enjoy seeing Hungary partly
holding off hare-brained schemes like the EU sanctioning itself into a
recession, with majority voting maybe such issues can get solved
differently, who knows? There might be countries now who are letting
Hungary play the bad guy, go along with stupid, while keeping a low
profile. They might act differently under a different scheme.

---

The tax policy is seen as a German concession afaik bcz the issue is
near and dear to them (likely related to aversion to debt)

WION: "Olaf Scholz calls for reforms within the EU: Bats for new
admissions and military autonomy.. Speaking at the Congress of the
Party of European Socialists in Berlin, Scholz advocated for gradually
abolishing the principle of unanimity for decisions in foreign policy,
but also in other areas such as tax policy"

---

WION: "Metaverse fails to take off as user numbers tumble"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We do not want a World War.</p>&mdash; Emmanuel Macron (@EmmanuelMacron) <a href="https://twitter.com/EmmanuelMacron/status/1580504648821387268?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 13, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The Guardian: "Florida governor Ron DeSantis will fly migrants to
Illinois and Delaware"

---

H2 Central: "Western Australian Government Is Implementing The
Renewable Hydrogen Strategy to Support The Growth of The State‚Äôs
Renewable Hydrogen Industry"

---

Can't use continuously; a waste of money.

"[If I am] cycling through my battery Powerwall every single day, I'm
actually degrading the battery, and the sooner that it's going to
basically be dead and unusable and you need to go buy another one. My
battery pack is only there for an emergency, like if something crazy
happens like the power goes out.. And when I say it's not worth the
money.. I could have taken that $20,000 that it cost to put these on
the wall, and I could have put a bunch more, maybe 20, maybe 30 more
solar panels on the house.  Every single day that would be generating
money for me and money for our house, decreasing the cost"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Qgv6Lgvy8Lc?t=495)

---

Paper: "We examine[d] how the premature death of eminent life
scientists alters the vitality of their fields... To our surprise, it
is not competitors from within a subfield who assume the mantle of
leadership, but rather entrants from other fields who step in to fill
the void created by a star‚Äôs absence"

[PDF](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/aer.20161574)

---

It's easy to create singularity in math. $f(x) = 1/x$. There. I just
created a singularity at $x=0$. The function is undefined there. Does
that mean there is a black hole at $x=0$?

---

To detail, if your spiffy new model shows a 'singularity' at a point
it doesn't mean there should be a black hole there. Equation is likely
wrong, should be corrected so it has no singularity. In measurements
the instruments never spit out a 'singularity measurement'. Whereever
you point to, there is always a measurement.

---

Math models do not lose accuracy, at first, due to discretization
(that comes later). They lose accuracy because math models
"oversmooth". You are representing phenomena based on finite particles
with something that works at infinitely fine scale. The tool helped us
for a long time, we could not (and still can't) simulate all particles
to compete with nature, math allowed scientists to research phenomena
without having a computer as big as nature. But we need to remember
it's all an (oversmoothed) approximation.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Ruben is correct.</p>&mdash; Matt Gaetz (@mattgaetz) <a href="https://twitter.com/mattgaetz/status/1542905277082746883?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 1, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Why Charles abdic and younger son Kang? It makes sense actually, from
PR point of view, if abdication is due to the Diana drama, who was the
black sheep in their family, after Charles it would make sense to make
another black sheep the Kang from PR standpoint. \#Nostradamus

---

"The mine was just inspected". If they are inspected on conformance to
insufficient regulations, then even the most diligent inspection would
not be useful.

---

I remember an accident in 2014, it made history when an advisor to PM
did Italian karate on a protestor (he was sacked). 

[[-]](https://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/aide-to-turkish-prime-minister-pictured-kicking-soma-mine-disaster-mourner-9375902.html)

---

GEM Wiki: "Mining accidents are common in [TR], which has poor
mine-safety conditions. According to a report issued in 2010 by
[TEPAV], in 2008, deaths per 1 million tons of coal mined were
7.22.. (the highest figure in the world), 5 times the rate in China
(1.27) and 361 times the rate in the US (0.02)"

[[-]](https://www.gem.wiki/Soma_mine_disaster)

---

In US there's a massive belt of coal dots around.. "the Apalachia" I guess

---

Coal mines map

[[-]](../../2022/01/oilgasmin.html#minerals)

---

Coal mining accident in Asia Minor >40 dead

---

H2 Fuel News: "UK government backs new Carbon Trust clean hydrogen
accelerator"

---

H2 Central: "Cummins Drives Gigawatt Electrolyzer Manufacturing Plant
Forward in Spain, Expanding Its Global Clean Energy Footprint"

---

Unagi sushi is great

---

‚ô¨ Escargot ‚ô™ my car go ‚ô¨ 

---

Dude ate 'escargot' in Paris on show, tis all bathing in butter,
garlic; whatever was in that would surely taste good

---
