# Evil Geniuses

Andersen

The specific policy changes in the 1980s were profound in the
aggregate, but beyond the nostalgic Reaganite Morning in America and
freer-free-markets messaging, most of the changes were complicated and
esoteric and seemed small, so they had a stealth quality. It didn’t
feel quite like a paradigm shift because it was mainly carried out by
means of a thousand wonky adjustments to government rules and laws,
and obscure financial inventions, and big companies one by one
changing how they operated and getting away with it—all of it with
impacts that emerged gradually, over decades.  Social Security and
Medicare benefits were not cut, the EPA wasn’t abolished, labor unions
weren’t banned. As it turned out, the 1980s were the ’30s but in
reverse: instead of a fast-acting New Deal, a time-release Raw Deal.

But the reengineering was helped along because the masterminds of the
economic right brilliantly used the madly proliferating nostalgia. By
dressing up their mean new rich-get-richer system in old-time
patriotic drag. By portraying low taxes on the rich and unregulated
business and weak unions and a weak federal government as the only
ways back to some kind of rugged, frontiersy, stronger, better
America. And by choosing as their front man a winsome 1950s actor in a
cowboy hat, the very embodiment of a certain flavor of American
nostalgia.

<a name='gov'/>

Government

Every two or four years, a gold-standard academic survey asks
Americans if they “trust the government in Washington to do what is
right just about always, most of the time, or only some of the time?”
In 1964, 77 percent of them said always or most of the time. By 1970
that majority had shrunk to 54 percent, where it remained for a couple
of surveys. But the Vietnam War continued, and we continued losing
it...  Once a large majority of Americans came to believe that the
federal government was uninspiring or incompetent or corrupt or evil,
as they rapidly had over the previous decade, it was going to be a lot
easier for the economic right to persuade people that regulating big
business and taxing the rich were just plain wrong. Those people
wouldn’t necessarily become crusaders for free enterprise, but if they
started focusing more of their resentment and anger on the federal
government, the smart right-wingers knew, it could have the same
effect.

<a name='thedeal'/>

The Deal

The pivotal year for the energized economic right was 1978. Its dreams
were starting to come true. Americans were now more skeptical of
government than of big business. At the beginning of the year a CBS
News/New York Times survey found that 58 percent of Americans agreed
that "the Government has gone too far in regulating business and
interfering with the free enterprise system," up from 42 percent
during the 1960s.

A critical mass of the people elected to run the government had also
been persuaded to give big business what it wanted. Democrats held the
presidency and a two-to-one House majority and a historic
sixty-two-seat Senate majority. Yet in early 1978, a bill to create a
new consumer protection agency was defeated in the House because 101
Democrats voted against it, including a majority of the Democratic
freshmen, thanks in large part to lobbying by CEOs from the Business
Roundtable.

And 1978 was also a tipping-point year in the economic right's crusade
to persuade people that because government now sucked, all taxes paid
to all governments by everyone, no matter how wealthy, were way too
high and also sucked. The overwhelmingly Democratic Congress
overwhelmingly passed and the Democratic president signed into law a
huge reduction in taxes on income from selling stocks, capital gains -
a definitive turn toward making extra-sure the rich got richer
faster...

<a name='bargain'/>

In retrospect, Milton Friedman's 1970 manifesto on behalf of shameless
greed amounted to a preliminary offer by the philosopher-king of the
economic right to forge a grand bargain with the cultural left. Both
sides could find common ground concerning ultra-individualism and
mistrust of government. And by the end of the 1970s, only the
formalities remained to execute the agreement. Going forward, the
masses would be permitted as never before to indulge their hedonistic
and self-expressive impulses. And capitalists in return would also be
unshackled, free to indulge their own animal spirits with fewer and
fewer fetters in the forms of regulation, taxes, or social
opprobrium. 'Do your own thing' is not necessarily so different from
'every man for himself'. That could mean..  smoking weed, or wearing
blue jeans every day, or refusing to agree to gun regulation— or rich
people paying themselves as much as they wanted, or banks misleading
borrowers and speculating recklessly. Deal? Deal.

