# Batman: The Sucking Returns

Judgement is in: According to friends and yours truly, latest saga on
Batman adventures fail to satisfy. Fail to entertain. To top it off,
it sort of ... sucks too. Oh no! Explain that Mr. Karun! How dare you
go against box office wisdom!

Ahem. Let me explain.

I am not sure if my negative review is due to failed expectations
which were built up too much by pre-release rumor, but I can say with
certainty that logical inconsistencies, and that over the top
"Batvoice" was what did this movie in for me. I mean, I always found
Bat costume always ridiculous compared to, say, Iron Man's armor which
looks like a true knight's armor and is equipped with clever gizmo's
which any fanboy would salivate over; But also, at some point in my
growth I must have concluded that capes really do not make sense for a
superhero who does not have superpowers and needs all the flexibility
he can get. But there is more.

How can a Harvey Dent transition from such a doo-gooder, into the
two-face we saw at the end of the movie? How can Morgan Freeman's
character who scares people using his vigilante hero friend, object to
using surveillance equipment to help catch criminals? I mean, c'mon!
None of this make sense!

On other parts of the movie, it increasingly feels like director Nolan
fell victim to Batman canon, you know, THE NEED TO STICK TO
HISTORY. Why the need? Haven't we seen enough Jokers, two faced
enemies, and other "normal" people who are just "bad". No superpowers?
Why does every superhero "must" have an enemy in the same "power
range" as him? Can't they have a kick-ass really bad-ass supervillain
that can clean Batman's clock? You know in comic book world, Batman
did go head-to-head with Superman, and he kicked his ass. Twice.

Plus. Fighting scenes suck. All you see two pointy ears that go up and
down once in a while and bad guys sort of... fall around, and down,
and that's it. What is the point of this? There is nothing new
here. It sucks. Big time (to borrow a Dick Cheney
euphemism). Really. Couldn't you do anything better? I am also tired
of mindless sadism purported by bad guys in movies... This is what the
new Joker represents - mindless, pointless violence. Isn't there
enough of this on our streets, on our neighborhoods, in our families?
Sure, art imitates life, but then why is Batman this "non-violence"
BatGandhi who "shalt do no harm"? If Joker was supposed to be
Batdude's mirror image, than Batdude must kick the same amount of ass
as Joker does. There was a disconnect there.

All of this makes the latest box office results for Batman all the
more puzzling. Fear not dear Reader. I have an explanation... If we
use Stuff White People Like blog's thinking patterns , Batman would
fall into a category of a movie that white people would love to talk
about, just because a semi-famous actor died in it (it's very
important he was semi-famous, so he can be "discovered" and be talked
about posthumously) That is ALL. You don't need any other publicity
stunt, a push, or leg-up so to speak; The death of Heath Ledger right
after the movie finished filming was all this movie ever needed. The
man will earn a posthumous Oscar he probably deserves - he was so out
of character that usually begets an Oscar in Tinseltown, which will at
the same time push the box score of this movie to stratosphere.

Job well done. Good director time was wasted but, hey, money is coming
in ... My $10 was wasted too but I consider this an education. Fuck
man, I stayed throughout the whole movie to punish myself so I don't
repeat this mistake again... So No more Hulk, no more Batman and no
more Superman for me. Don't give me that X-men III crap either.

For more, look here.
