# AI and Functions

What would new developments in AI look like? There's been many
advances in this area, particularly around pattern matching, but the
newer methods are mostly reverse engineering a function out of data,
much like linear regression used in simple problems.

I have a feeling the new direction has to look something like this: a
new math around pattern matching is developed. Maybe there is a
first-class citizen in the math for a pattern *function*. I am not
talking about approximately representing a function with deep
learning, reverse engineering it from data. I am talking about in the
abstract, there will be a *pattern function*, with its own algebraic
rules, operations around the matching of the pattern function in
various forms. We will be able to play with these rules, and perform
symbolic manipulation in any direction we want, and these derivations
in the abstract will take us to places that'll surprise us, which
means discoveries. This is how Calculus worked for physics.

It can be argued that when physics was developed there were no
computers, so physicists back then *had* to use symbolic math to do
stuff, now we have computers, so we don't have to. People who argue
this are underestimating what mathematics did for science. There isn't
enough time in the world to run the kinds of variations needed that
will get us the developments required for huge discoveries, and even
then, you would be tied to a particular set of data. So we need some
kind of new abstraction.

