# Bancor

[Bancor was proposed as an international money invented by Keynes
post-WW2. This idea was not accepted / pursued in a conference called
Bretton Woods, instead a dollar based system was envisaged, spurred by
the US, which remains the system today].

BW [1] adopted a national currency as international money.  Systematic
balance of payments deficits for the country issuing the international
money were an inevitable consequence of this arrangement. Those
deficits became essential as a source of money supply for the rest of
the world, and as a means to finance the expansion of international
trade and investments.  And, as Triffin has pointed out in formulating
the dilemma that goes under his name, running deficits in the interest
of growth can only jeopardize stability [..Triffin Dilemma mainly says
a nation-state, the boss, issuing global currency lives in a dilemma,
the rest of the world needs that currency, but the boss cannot do that
without being in deficit, which might contradict with its internal
politics]

According to a theory of international trade that goes back at least
to David Hume, any disequilibrium is doomed to be reabsorbed by
automatic adjustment mechanisms. In a system of freely fluctuating
exchange rates, a trade surplus ought to determine an appreciation of
the currency of the surplus country, thus reducing its competitiveness
and contributing to rebalance its foreign trade.  If a country throws
sand in the mechanism, for example by piling up foreign exchange
reserves in order to keep its exchange rate low, this will obviously
hinder the correction and perpetuate the imbalance (at least until a
rebalancing is achieved, more slowly and indirectly, by a greater
inflation in the surplus country, or by a greater deflation in the
deficit country, so as to eventually devalue the currency of the
latter in real terms, if not in nominal terms). ...

A third reason for persistent imbalances is of a completely different
nature, and has to do with the functioning of international capital
markets as *markets*. The very fact that imbalances are funded by
surplus countries at a cost, in the form of credits that have to be
remunerated, puts the whole burden of adjustment on the shoulders of
the deficit country, which is in most cases the weakest party and the
least capable of bearing the weight.  The relationship between
creditor and debtor countries is greatly asymmetric: the debtor pays
an interest on its debts, while the creditor earns a return on its
investments; the debtor may be forced to borrow, while the creditor is
never compelled to lend; the debtor faces a limit on the
sustainability of its liabilities, while the creditor can go on
indefinitely accumulating reserves and assets; the adjustment is more
painful for the debtor, who is forced to enforce restrictive monetary
and fiscal policies, than for the creditor, who is asked to adopt
expansionary policies...

This claim is based on the fact that the international monetary system
envisaged by Keynes, unlike the one that was established at BW,
radically overturned the causes of structural imbalance outlined in
the previous chapter. This stands out clearly from the distinctive
features of the Clearing Union: an international unit of account,
distinct from all national currencies; a symmetric distribution of the
burden of readjustment between debtor and creditor countries; a
criterion to detect chronic disequilibria and to correct exchange
rates accordingly.  Let us see what kind of international monetary
architecture Keynes planned to build on these three pillars...

The Clearing Union was conceived as a bank with the task of financing
temporary disequilibria in the balance of trade between countries. In
this respect, it shared the same purpose of the IMF. Yet, unlike the
IMF or an ordinary commercial bank, it would not grant credit on the
basis of deposits or capital previously entrusted to it by its
members. Member countries would not be required to commit any amount
of money in any form to the Clearing Union. They would be simply
assigned a current account denominated in a new, international unit of
account called ‘bancor’.  Not having deposited anything into its
account, the initial balance of each country would be equal to
zero. The par value of the currency of each member would be expressed
in terms of bancor.

The Clearing Union would grant credit in the form of overdraft
facilities. In other terms, each member would have the possibility of
financing a trade deficit simply by entering a negative balance on its
account.  Symmetrically, a country with a trade surplus would have a
positive balance credited to its account.  Hence, for example, an
export from country A to country B financed by the Clearing Union
would give rise to the simultaneous registration of two entries of
equal amount: a credit to the account of A and a debit to the account
of B. Thanks to the centralization of all accounts at the Clearing
Union, however, the credit and debit would not be bilateral, but
multilateral positions, of each country vis‐à‐vis all the other
members as a whole.  In other terms, the surplus country A could spend
its credit in bancor not only with B, but with any other member
country; and B could reduce its debit by exporting towards any other
country.  In this way, the Clearing Union would be able, in principle,
to finance international trade and its expansion, without the need of
any given amount of money. ...

Bancor is not a fiat money. To be sure, it is created ex nihilo. And
yet its creation does not depend on the decision of a central
authority.  The amount of bancor balances is not decided by the
Clearing Union.  Bancor can only be created in conjunction with the
transfer of real goods from a surplus country to a deficit
country. Moreover ...  bancor does not only come from nothing, but it
also goes back to nothing; it is not only created, but it is also
destroyed, every time a transfer of goods occurs in the opposite
direction, from a deficit to a surplus country.

[.. In this] international bank designed by Keynes, not only debtors
would have to pay an interest on their debts, but also creditors would
have to pay an interest on their credits ...

This might appear startling and vexatious towards creditors, since we
are used to seeing them as virtuous savers that deserve to be
rewarded.  Yet, this is contrary to the logic of Keynes’s plan, and on
strictly economic, not moral, grounds. First of all, the creditors
within the Clearing Union have not deposited any money, and hence do
not have to be compensated for not spending it. [..] But why do they
have to pay? Because, indeed, they receive a benefit from the
possibility of running credits with the Clearing Union that it is
worth paying for. Just as the Clearing Union allows deficit countries
to purchase goods that they otherwise would not have been able to
afford, in exactly the same way and in the same measure it allows
surplus countries to sell goods that they would have otherwise not
have been able to sell...

Here comes into play the third distinctive feature of Keynes’s
proposal: the correction of exchange rate misalignments.  In case a
country should have a systematic deficit (or surplus), its currency
would be devalued (or revalued) accordingly, in order to increase (or
reduce) its competitiveness and hence to restore the equilibrium of
its foreign trade.  The fact of restricting the possibility of
devaluating to deficit countries is sufficient to rule out
‘competitive devaluations’, that is, the indiscriminate recourse to
this sort of measure as a way to boost exports. In fact, the
disequilibria that would justify such corrections would be clearly
defined in terms of a certain proportion of the quota for a certain
number of years...

A similar clearing system could be set up in Europe to face the
current sovereign debt problems.  As I have already observed, the
whole debate concerning the so‐called ‘sovereign debts’ is biased by
an obsessive concern for public debts, whereas the problem really
concerns that part of public and private debts which is financed
abroad. In other terms, the real problem of the euro today is the
persistent disequilibrium in the balance of payments of participating
countries. And the European monetary unification bears itself a
responsibility for the buildup of such imbalances, since it has
encouraged international capital movements to expand at bay from
exchange risk, in fact inhibiting the correction of exchange rate
misalignments.

*--------------*

Bancor requires no anchor; There are a certain group of econs out
there who have an odd infatuation with gold (Keynes despised it,
called it a barbaric relic). The yellow metal is nothing special. We
*imbue* moneyness on things ourselves, from the beginning of ancient
times (money is created by armies. King deploys soldiers to get slaves
to dig x out of the ground, gives x to the soldiers as minted money,
and taxes ordinary people in x [2]).

Bancor discourages both creditors and debtors, PLUS adjusts the
exchange rate depending on the status of countries, whether on the
plus side, or the minus side of the ledger. In essence what should
have happened through "floating" currency exchanges, happens through
bancor.

Refs

[1] Fantacci, *Why not bancor? Keynes’s currency plan as a solution to global imbalances*,
    [Link](https://wwwfr.uni.lu/content/download/52451/628639/file/Paper_Prof.%20Fantacci_19.01.2012.pdf)

[2] Graeber, Debt: The First 5000 Years


