# Underactuated

When the walking robot Asimo was unveiled in 1996 by Honda, it was the
absolute pinnacle for a certain type of robot. It could walk, climb
the stairs, etc., move comfortably.

[Video](https://youtu.be/Z8oMbOj9IWM?t=235)

But look closely it seems that Asimo is planning each move, each move
is very deliberate and controlled. "It is not making use of the
dynamics" chimed in Prof. Tedrake (in the video above). In robotics
there is the dynamics of the system, robot, the environment which
define what can happen. Then there is the control, the *actuator* that
guides the system to a certain direction.

In many ways Asimo is overly controlled. Humans and many species in
nature evolved to be *underactuated*, that is guiding their system
with minimal control, making use (based on our prediction of) the
larger dynamics. It is more energy efficient that way; when we walk we
don't baby sit *all* our actions, what we actually perform is
controlled falling.

In a way, we are like surfers. The outcomes a surfer achieves are in
obscene proportion compared to the control input s/he applies. With
one turn of the hip, with certain stance, you are at the top of a
wave, compared to the middle of the cusp shooting through right before
it closes on you. This is underactuated control. Less energy, more
outcome. Asimo requires 20 times more energy to achieve what a human
does.

Look at this this passive walker, it requires no external energy, it
completely "rides the wave of gravity" to walk.

[Video](https://youtu.be/Z8oMbOj9IWM?t=434)

Life is full of control actions. We apply control to economics, in
international relations. The optimal thing is not controlling
everything, but riding a wave, making use of the larger energy that is
the outside dynamics.

