# The Collapse of the Big Bang and the Gaseous Sun

Robitaille, New York Times Ad, 2002 ([PDF](times.pdf))

If I choose this avenue, it is because I am at a loss in dealing with
the scientific publication of this material.  The ideas are both too
simple and unexpected to stand any chance of publication in the peer
reviewed physics literature.

1) The Temperature of the Universe and The Big Bang:

Kirchhoff’s Law of Thermal (or Blackbody) Emission [1] deals with the
transfer of heat through space.  Formulated in 1859, Kirchhoff’s Law
is central to modern astrophysics since it enables the study of the
temperature of objects through the analysis of the photons (or light)
they emit. It is through the analysis of such photons that scientists
believe that “the temperature of the universe” has been measured.[2,3]
The COBE satellite [4] has now set this temperature with great
precision to 2.728±0.004 K (-455˚ Fahrenheit). The “temperature of the
universe” is viewed as the central proof of the Big Bang.

In the mid-1800’s, scientists produced blackbodies by covering objects
with black paint. Since the paint was black, the body became a nearly
perfect absorber/emitter of radiation. Alternatively, blackbodies were
produced from an enclosed cavity with a small hole enabling light to
enter or exit. In either case, these blackbodies were limited to
solids. Kirchhoff utilized mathematics to extend his findings making
his law universal to all bodies. Through the formulation of
Kirchhoff’s Law, many believe that the conclusions Kirchhoff reached
relative to Blackbody Radiation could be extended to all phases of
matter. However, to be properly applied, Kirchhoff’s Law requires that
the body in question be in equilibrium with an adiabatic enclosure. It
is impossible for anything other than a solid to approach meeting this
requirement. Pure liquids, gases and plasmas can never enclose
themselves in a near equilibrium manner. Therefore, they can never be
considered blackbodies. No pure gas or plasma has ever produced a
“blackbody spectrum” as Kirchhoff observed for solids in the
laboratory. In fact, because of their fundamental nature, gases and
plasmas are unable to emit radiation in this manner without being
enclosed. Gases and plasmas, by themselves, lack the internal lattice
structure required to support the necessary atomic vibrations. As a
result, gases typically absorb or emit radiation in numerous narrow
bands often reflecting their quantized vibrational and rotational
states. As for liquids, little is known about the nature of their
thermal emissions.

As such, the universality of Blackbody Radiation has been
overstated. It is imprudent to speak in terms of “blackbodies” without
noting, as Kirchhoff did, the constraints of the enclosure. The
underlying physical cause of thermal radiation must not be ignored and
this includes the internal structure of matter. Yet Einstein’s [5]
derivation of Planck’s Law,[6] though masterful, has lead some to
ignore Kirchoff, thermal equilibrium and the physical realities of
involved in thermal emission.

<a name='bigbang'/>

While the signal measured by the COBE satellite [4] is indeed thermal
in origin, it does not correspond to a real temperature. Moreover, it
will eventually be discovered that the signal of the COBE satellite [4]
is not associated with the “temperature of the universe,” but is
produced by the oceans. This accounts for the fantastic signal to
noise obtained in the COBE measurements. The detector is in close
proximity to the source (i.e. – the earth). The oceans fail to meet
Kirchhoff’s requirement for equilibrium with an adiabatic
enclosure. As such, they produce a thermal curve reporting an
incorrect temperature. This is a manifestation that the oceans are
liquids and that they, unlike solids, possess translational and
rotational degrees of freedom.  This is seen in their enormous
convection currents. Translational and rotational degrees of freedom
can act as energy “sinks” lowering the amount of energy available to
the vibrational degrees of freedom available for thermal
emission. Extensive Mie scattering causes the COBE signal to be nearly
isotropic even when viewed near the earth. Since the COBE signal will
no longer be associated with the remnants of the Big Bang, and since
the “temperature of the universe” has been hailed as the proof of the
Big Bang, this theory cannot easily be sustained. It is impossible to
measure a “temperature of the universe” for the simple reason that the
requirements set down by Kirchhoff can never be met in a Big Bang
scenario. The “primordial mass” was never in equilibrium with an
adiabatic enclosure. We will never know the temperature of the
universe.

2) The Current Gaseous Model of the Sun:

In 1870, Lane published his discussion of the gaseous nature of the
sun. [7] At the time, of course, one could have had little idea about
whether or not the sun was really a gas. Nonetheless, Eddington [8,9]
would build on the ideas of Lane.[7] Eddington believed that the laws
of physics and thermodynamics could be used to deduce the internal
structure of the sun without any experimental verification.[8,9] In
1926, he would speak hypothetically about being able to live on an
isolated planet completely surrounded by clouds. In such a setting, he
thought he would still be able to analyze the sun without any further
knowledge than its mass, its size and the laws of physics.[8,9] It was
in this spirit that Eddington set out to expand on Lane’s model of the
sun. Assuming that Lane’s gaseous model was correct,[7] Eddington used
simple deductive reasoning to set the internal temperature of the sun
at 10,000,000 - 40,000,000 K.[8,9] Today, this remains the range for
the internal temperature of the sun (~15,000,000 K). This accepted
temperature is reinforced by man’s knowledge of the temperatures
associated with thermonuclear energy.

At the same time, Eddington also realized that a gaseous sun should
collapse on itself.[8,9] That is, the great forces of gravity present
on the sun should pull all of the mass of the sun into a much smaller
sphere.  Like his predecessors, Eddington pondered how it was that the
gaseous sun did not collapse. He solved the problem by invoking
outward radiation pressure originating from within the sun. He
reasoned that if the inside of the sun was producing individual
packets of light (or photons), that these photons could in turn
produce the outward pressure he was seeking. It was already known that
light pressure (or radiation pressure) could be measured on earth. For
instance, a thin foil could be caused to rotate when exposed to light.
Therefore, light quanta clearly possessed momentum. It was this “light
pressure” that Eddington would invoke to keep the gaseous sun from
collapsing.[8,9] Consequently, Eddington postulated that the inner
portion of the sun produced photons. He then deduced that these
individual light quanta would sooner or later run into a gas ion or
atom and propel it up against the forces of the sun’s gravity. He
called the region of the sun where this occurs the radiation
zone. This zone remains a central portion of solar theory to this day.
Importantly, however, this zone exists primarily as a result of
Eddington’s reasoning.

While Eddington believed that he properly understood a key aspect of
solar theory with the creation of the radiation zone, he also wanted
to know exactly how many photons the sun could produce to support this
hypothesis. At the time, he understood the consequences of Stefan’s
Law of Emission.[10] Stefan’s Law states that the total amount of
photons (or light) emitted from a perfectly emitting object (a
blackbody) is directly proportional to the fourth power of the
object’s temperature ($\epsilon = σT^4$, where ε represents total
emission and Stefan’s constant, σ, is equal to $5.67051 x 10^{-8}$
Watts/($m^2K^4$) ).  It was through Stefan’s Law that Eddington sought
an answer. Believing that the internal layers of the sun could be
treated as individual blackbodies, Eddington could apply Stefan’s Law
to imaginary internal solar layers. He could construct hypothetical
spheres within the sun and calculate the total amount of photons
emitted from such spheres.  Given the dimensions and temperatures
involved, the total output of photons would be almost
unimaginable. Not fully understanding the limitations set down by
Kirchhoff, Eddington believed that Stefan’s Law was universal. In the
end, Eddington’s application of Stefan’s Law would result in a
tremendous output of photons from the sun. Yet, the sun is known to
have a much lower total energy output.

At the same time, Eddington recognized from the laws of thermodynamics
that an object at millions of degrees should produce its photons at
X-ray frequencies. This was preordained by Stefan’s Law of
Emission,[10] Wien’s Law of Displacement [11] and Planck’s Blackbody
Radiation Law.[6] However, Eddington also realized that the sun
emitted very little X-rays. Indeed, most of the solar output of energy
occurs in the so-called “visible region.” That is, the sun is
producing its energy primarily at frequencies easily detected with the
human eye. This energy output is emitted from the surface layer of the
sun, called the “photosphere.”

In the mid-1880’s, it was Langley [12,13] who first recorded the
output energy of the photosphere. He pointed a detector directly at
the sun and recorded, for the first time, its emission spectrum. At
the time that Langley obtained this data, he immediately recognized
that the solar spectrum had a thermal appearance.  As such,
overextending Kirchhoff’s Law, Langley would seek to apply the Laws of
Thermal Radiation to the analysis of the solar spectrum. First, he
assumed that the sun was nearly a blackbody. Once again, by ignoring
the constraints set forth in Kirchhoff’s Law of Emission, he was able
to set the temperature of the photosphere. Without regard for the
phases of matter, he reported a temperature of ~6,000 K. As a result,
even though the Laws of Thermal Emission were developed in solids, the
value of ~6,000 K remains the accepted temperature of the photosphere
to this day.

It can be said that Langley’s experiment was the beginning of a new
age for astronomy.[12,13] For the first time, the emission spectrum
(plot of the intensity of light as a function of frequency) of a star
had been recorded. When Eddington was working on his theory of the
gaseous sun,[8,9] he was well aware of Langley’s temperature for the
photosphere (~6,000 K). Yet, Eddington had deduced that the internal
portion of the sun was at temperatures of millions of
degrees. Furthermore, these photons should be produced at X-ray
frequencies. In order to solve this dilemma, Eddington simply stated
that when photons are produced in the radiation zone, they are
initially produced at X-ray frequencies.[8,9] However, when these
photons are absorbed in the collisions associated with radiation
pressure (see above), they slowly lose some of their energy. In this
manner, after millions of years and many collisions, the photons
emerge from the sun’s photosphere shifted to the visible region. Only
a very small fraction of the total photons produced in the absorptive
zone manage to escape at any time. According to Eddington, the
radiation zone is acting as a very slowly leaking “sieve.” [8,9] It
was in this manner that Eddington was able to solve some of the great
problems in solar theory: 1) How to prevent the gaseous sun from
collapsing on itself; 2) How to set the internal temperature of the
sun and finally; 3) How to shift the frequency of photons produced at
X-ray frequencies to the observed visible region. The creation of the
radiation zone had resulted in tremendous radiation pressure within
the sun. For Eddington, this radiation pressure exactly balanced with
the gravitational forces resulting in our current gaseous model of the
sun. The gaseous sun had been prevented from collapsing and photons
were now produced appropriately in the visible range.[8,9] Thus,
Eddington’s gaseous sun was at very high temperatures (millions of
degrees). Yet, this extremely hot object, was surrounded by a very
cool photosphere only a few thousand kilometers thick and at a
temperature of just ~6,000 K.

It is interesting that in Eddington’s model, the inside of the sun is
unable to heat the photosphere. If the sun was a tennis ball, the
entire ball would be sitting at millions of degrees. Furthermore, it
would be surrounded by a layer, on the order of skin deep, at ~6,000
K. How can the photosphere be so cold relative to the inside of the
sun? It is hard to conceive that such an object can exist. In
addition, the primary means of heat transfer within the sun, as
proposed by Eddington, remains radiative in nature.[8,9] That is,
photons become the primary means of striving for internal thermal
equilibrium in the sun. However, this idea is not in accordance with
our knowledge of the behavior of objects. Rather, for all other
objects, internal thermal equilibrium is achieved through thermal
convection and conduction. In contrast, radiative heat transfer
enables an object to dissipate heat and try to reach thermal
equilibrium with the outside world.

It can be argued that much of modern solar theory can be attributed to
ideas first developed near the beginning of the 20th century by men
like Lane, Langley and Eddington. Today, Eddington’s radiation zone
remains as a central feature of solar theory. The sun is viewed as
composed of a very hot internal fraction (>10,000,000 K) surrounded by
Langley’s photosphere at ~6,000 K. The density [14] of the central
core is thought to approach 150 g/cm3, while that of the lower
photosphere is thought to be on the order of $10^{-7} g/cm^3$. Neither of
the numbers, of course, can be verified by direct experimentation.

The next big step in solar theory came in the 1950’s. At that time,
scientists were beginning to obtain interesting data from the solar
corona (the outer gaseous layer of the sun that is seen during
eclipses). The corona extends from the chromosphere (the layer just
above the photosphere) to millions of kilometers away from the sun. It
was observed15 that the corona possessed within it highly ionized ions
which can only be produced at temperatures well in excess of 1,000,000
K. (The width of Lymanα lines further demonstrates that temperatures
in the corona range from $2.6 x10^6$ K at 1.5 solar radius to $1.2 x10^6$
K at 4 solar radii [15]). This finding of very hot temperatures
in the corona presented a major problem for solar theory.  Thus, a
temperature within the corona (>1,000,000 K) which exceeded that of
the photosphere (~6,000 K) indicated a violation of the 2nd Law of
Thermodynamics. That is, heat could not be coming from inside the sun
to heat the corona, while remaining incapable of heating the
photosphere. Thus, if the photosphere was really at ~6,000 K, there
must be found an alternative means to heat the corona. It has now been
widely accepted that the local heating in the corona occurs as a
result of a process involving the flow of ions through the magnetic
fields of the sun.

Thus, the current modern model of the sun is extremely complex. The
sun must generate enough internal radiation pressure to prevent a
gaseous sun from collapsing on itself. The model must also contain
photons. It must shift the photons produced at X-ray frequencies to
the visible region. Furthermore, in order to simultaneously preserve
Langley’s temperature and respect the 2nd Law of Thermodynamics, the
model must provide two means of generating heat. The first of these
must occur within the sun and is thought to be thermonuclear in
origin. The second must occur in the corona and is thought to be of
magnetic origin.  Particles moving at enormous speeds must also be
involved to ensure this second temperature. Furthermore, something
very strange must be happening relative to the photosphere. Indeed,
the model advances that this layer cannot be heated either by the
interior of the sun or by the corona, both of which are at much higher
temperatures. It is under this backdrop that the modern theory of the
sun has developed and few, if any, have questioned the initial
findings or assumptions.

3) The Liquid Model of the Sun:

The sun cannot meet the requirements for a blackbody as set down by
Kirchhoff for the simple reason that it is not in thermal equilibrium
with an adiabatic enclosure. In fact, the sun is actually operating
far out of equilibrium by every measure. As such, it is improper for
Langley [11,12] to set a temperature of the photosphere at ~6,000 K
based on Stefan,[10] Wien [11] and Planck.[6] Moreover, the
photosphere cannot be a low density gas. Gases simply cannot produce a
Planckian shaped thermal emission profile like that seen in the
visible light provided by the sun’s photosphere. Rather gases emit or
absorb radiation in narrow frequency bands often reflecting quantized
vibration-rotational states. There does not exist a single example on
earth of a pure gas producing a Planckian shaped emission
spectrum. This is reserved for solids and liquids since only they
possess the structure required to support the vibrational modes
leading to a Planckian shaped emission spectrum. The belief that
isolated gases can support a Planckian shaped spectrum is
erroneous. Also, the photosphere cannot be a solid as convection
currents are clearly observed in this layer. That is, there is clearly
the flow of material in the photosphere.

This leaves the liquid state as a prime candidate for the
photosphere. The sun has an average density of $1.4 g/cm^3$. This fact
can easily support a liquid model. By comparison, the density of water
is 1 $g/cm^3$. In addition, a liquid structure eliminates the need for
radiation pressure to prevent the sun from collapsing on itself
through the forces of gravity. The liquid alone can support the upper
layers.

It is advanced that the temperature reported by a Planckian emission
profile depends only on the amount of energy contained in the
vibrational degrees of freedom of the lattice. Liquids still possess
the vibrational degrees of freedom required for generating a Planckian
shaped emission profile. However, in a liquid, not all of the energy
is contained within the vibrational degrees of freedom of the
lattice. Indeed, most of the energy (nonnuclear) may well be contained
in the translational and rotational degrees of freedom. This leaves
much less energy than expected at a given temperature in the
vibrational degrees of freedom of the lattice. This fact can cause a
liquid to report a much lower temperature than its real temperature
when the Laws of Thermal Emission [6,10,11] are utilized to monitor
its emission spectrum. Since the frequency and amount of photons
released by an object is related only to the amount of energy in the
vibrational degrees of freedom of the lattice Evib, it is easy to see
why Langley was tricked into thinking that the photosphere was sitting
at a temperature of only ~6,000 K. A liquid can instantaneously lower
the total output of photons at a given temperature and releases them
at a frequency significantly lower than what would be predicted from
the real temperature of the liquid. Thus, a liquid photosphere with a
temperature of ~7,000,000 K could be generating photons not at X-ray
frequencies as expected, but rather, in the visible range. This occurs
because the photosphere is a liquid and has convection. Since most of
the energy of the photosphere is tied up in the translational (or
rotational) degrees of freedom and its associated convection, it is
simply not available for the generation of thermal photons. Langley
failed to understand the importance of Kirchhoff’s adiabatic
enclosure.

As such, the photosphere is once again “tricking us.” Because it is a
liquid, it is really at a much higher temperature than it
appears. Since an “apparent temperature” is probably involved,
Stefan’s, [10] Wien’s [11] and Planck’s [6] Laws need to be
modified. In these equations, there is a temperature term (T),
included. In order to apply these equations properly to a liquid, the
temperature term (T) needs to be changed to an “apparent temperature,”
Tapp. This “apparent temperature” will not be a real
temperature. Rather, the apparent temperature, Tapp, is simply the
real temperature, T, divided by a constant “α” (Tapp=T/α). The
constant “α” would be temperature dependent for most liquids. For the
photosphere “α” is ~1,000. As such, the sun’s photosphere is reporting
a temperature which is nearly 1,000 times too low. Thus, there is
nearly 1,000 times more energy tied up in the translational and
rotational degrees of freedom of the photosphere than in the
vibrational degrees of freedom. That is where the “trick” comes in and
this would have been difficult for Langley to understand at the
time. The liquid phase could account for the tremendous convection
currents found on the solar surface by invoking the translational and
rotational degrees of freedom to deal with the heat separating the
real temperature “T” and the apparent temperature “Tapp.”

The liquid phase provides the only means of producing a thermal
radiation curve for the sun at a lower apparent temperature than its
real temperature. This remedies the problem with Langley’s temperature
for the photosphere. Setting a real temperature of the photosphere at
~7,000,000 K eliminates the need to find exotic ways of heating the
corona and permits the free flow of heat throughout the outer layers
of the sun.  As such, the 2nd Law of Thermodynamics is no longer
violated. Photons no longer take millions of years to leave the sun,
[8,9] but rather, are “instantly” released and produced at the
photosphere. By invoking a liquid model with a shifted apparent
temperature, the radiation zone is no longer required within the
sun. This is because the massive amount of X-rays predicted by
Eddington’s application of Stefan’s Law would never be produced. The
heating of the corona by complex magnetic field interactions is also
no longer required.  The primary means of internal heat transfer
within the sun (like every other object known to man) once again
becomes convection and conduction. Since energy transfer through
convection is only proportional to T and not T4 (as was the case for
thermal radiation), it can be expected that regions of nonequilibrium
superheated fluid exist within the sun. A theory based on the release
of superheated fluid from the convection zone could help explain much
of the solar activity found on the surface of the sun (including
flares and prominences). It should also be noted that the photosphere
has a reasonably distinct surface. This once again is best explained
if a liquid is considered.

As a note in added proof, recent SOHO satellite data [16] provides
clear evidence for waves, associated with the production of a flare,
on the surface of the sun. These waves are described as “resembling
ripples from a pebble thrown on a pond.” While the authors do not
specifically state that these represent transverse waves, there can be
no question that this is the case. These waves have very long
wavelengths. Gases, unlike liquids, are unable to support such
waves. The photosphere, therefore, must be a liquid.  In conclusion,
our sun is not a complex gaseous structure straining the laws of
physics and thermodynamics. Rather, it is a liquid, a turbulent sea,
which like the ocean is a testament to the power, simplicity and
beauty of Kirchhoff’s Law.

[1] Chapman AC, Heat Transfer, MacMillan Co, NY., p. 412-413 (1967); Landsberg PT, Thermodynamics, Interscience, NY, 1961;

[2] Dicke et. al, Astrophys. J. 1, 414-419 (1965);

[3] Penzias and Wilson, Astrophys. J. 1, 419-421 (1965);

[4] Fixen et. al., Astrophys. J.  473, 576-587 (1996);

[5] Einstein A., Verhandlungen der Deutschen Physikalischen
Gesellschatt 18, 318-323 (1916);

[6] Planck M., Annalen der Physik 4(3):553-563 (1901);

[7]. Lane JH, Am. J. Sci. Arts., Ser 2, 50, 57-74 (1870);

[8] Eddington AS, The Internal Constitution of the Stars. Dover Publ.,
Inc. NY, 1959;

[9] Eddington, A.S., Stars and Atoms, Yale Univ. Press, New Haven,
1927;

[10] Stefan J, Akad. Sitzber. 79:391-428 (1879);

[11] Wien W. Annalen der Physik. 1896; 58:662-669;

[12] Langley SP, Mem. Natl. Acad.  Sci., v. 2, 147-162 (1883);

[13] Langley SP, Phil. Mag. 22:149-173 (1886);

[14] Gray DF, The Observation and Analysis of Stellar
Photospheres. Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge, 1992, p.124;

[15] Livingston W. and Koutchmy S. Eclipse Science Results: Past and
Present. ASP Conference Series, vol. 205, p. 3-10, 2000;

[16] Kosovichev AG. and Zharkova VV. Nature 393, 28 May 1998.

