# The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies: Specialization

A second great principle ran through all Second Wave societies:
specialization. For the more the Second Wave eliminated diversity in
language, leisure, and life-style, the more it needed diversity in the
sphere of work. Accelerating the division of labor, the Second Wave
replaced the casual jack-of-all-work peasant with the narrow,
purse-lipped specialist and the worker who did only one task,
Taylor-fashion, over and over again [..].

By the time Henry Ford started manufacturing Model Ts in 1908 it took
not eighteen different operations to complete a unit but 7,882. In his
autobiography, Ford noted that of these 7,882 specialized jobs, 949
required "strong, able-bodied, and practically physically perfect
men," 3,338 needed men of merely "ordinary" physical strength, most of
the rest could be performed by "women or older children, and, he
continued coolly, "we found that 670 could be filled by legless men,
2,637 by one-legged men, two by armless men, 715 by one-armed men and
10 by blind men." In short, the specialized job required not a whole
person, but only a part. No more vivid evidence that
overspecialization can be brutalizing has ever been adduced.

A practice which critics attributed to capitalism, however, became an
inbuilt feature of socialism as well. For the extreme specialization
of labor that was common to all Second Wave societies had its roots in
the divorce of production from consumption. The U.S.S.R., Poland, East
Germany, or Hungary can no more run their factories today without
elaborate specialization than can Japan or the United States—whose
Department of Labor in 1977 published a list of twenty thousand
identifiably different occupations.

In both capitalist and socialist industrial states, moreover,
specialization was accompanied by a rising tide of
professionalization. Whenever the opportunity arose for some group of
specialists to monopolize esoteric knowledge and keep newcomers out of
their field, professions emerged. As the Second Wave advanced, the
market intervened between a knowledge-holder and a client, dividing
them sharply into producer and consumer. Thus, health in Second Wave
societies came to be seen as a product provided by a doctor and a
health-delivery bureaucracy, rather than a result of intelligent
self-care (production for use) by the patient. Education was
supposedly "produced" by the teacher in the school and "consumed" by
the student.

All sorts of occupational groups from librarians to salesmen began
clamoring for the right to call themselves professionals—and for the
power to set standards, prices, and conditions of entry into their
specialties. By now, according to Michael Pertschuk, Chairman of the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission, "Our culture is dominated by
professionals who call us 'clients' and tell us of our 'needs.'"

In Second Wave societies even political agitation was conceived of as
a profession. Thus Lenin argued that the masses could not bring about
a revolution without professional help. What was needed, he asserted,
was an "organization of revolutionaries" limited in membership to
"people whose profession is that of a revolutionary."

Among communists, capitalists, executives, educators, priests, and
politicians, the Second Wave produced a common mentality and a drive
toward an ever more refined division of labor. Like Prince Albert at
the great Crystal Palace Exhibition of 1851, they believed that
specialization was "the moving power of civilization." The Great
Standardizes and The Great Specializes marched hand in hand.












