# The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies: Synchronization

The widening split between production and consumption also forced a
change in the way Second Wave people dealt with time. In a
market-dependent system, whether the market is planned or free, time
equals money. Expensive machines cannot be allowed to sit idly, and
they operate at rhythms of their own. This produced the third
principle of industrial civilization: synchronization.

Even in the earliest societies work had to be carefully organized in
time. Warriors often had to work in unison to trap their
prey. Fishermen had to coordinate their efforts in rowing or hauling
in the nets. George Thomson, many years ago, showed how various work
songs reflected the requirements of labor. [..]  Until the Second Wave
brought in machinery and silenced the songs of the worker, most such
synchronization of effort was organic or natural. It flowed from the
rhythm of the seasons and from biological processes, from the earth's
rotation and the beat of the heart. Second Wave societies, by
contrast, moved to the beat of the machine.

As factory production spread, the high cost of machinery and the close
interdependence of labor required a much more refined
synchronization. If one group of workers in a plant was late in
completing a task, others down the line would be further delayed. Thus
punctuality, never very important in agricultural communities, became
a social necessity, and clocks and watches began to proliferate. By
the 1790's they were already becoming commonplace in Britain. Their
diffusion came, in the words of British historian E. P. Thompson, "at
the exact moment when the industrial revolution demanded a greater
synchronization of labor."

Not by coincidence, children in industrial cultures were taught to
tell time at an early age. Pupils were conditioned to arrive at school
when the bell rang so that later on they would arrive reliably at the
factory or office when the whistle blew. Jobs were timed and split
into sequences measured in fractions of a second. "Nine-to-five"
formed the temporal frame for millions of workers.

Nor was it only working life that was synchronized. In all Second Wave
societies, regardless of profit or political considerations, social
life, too, became clock-driven and adapted to machine
requirements. Certain hours were set aside for
leisure. Standard-length vacations, holidays, or coffee breaks were
interspersed with the work schedules.

Children began and ended the school year at uniform times. Hospitals
woke all their patients for breakfast simultaneously. Transport
systems staggered under rush hours. Broadcasters fitted entertainment
into special time slots— "prime time," for example. Every business had
its own peak hours or seasons, synchronized with those of its
suppliers and distributors. Specialists in synchronization arose—from
factory expediters and schedulers to traffic police and tune-study
men.

By contrast, some people resisted the new industrial time system. And
here again sexual differences arose. Those who participated in Second
Wave work—chiefly men—became the most conditioned to clock-time.

Second Wave husbands continually complained that their wives kept them
waiting, that they had no regard for time, that it took them forever
to dress, that they were always late for appointments. Women,
primarily engaged in non-interdependent housework, worked to less
mechanical rhythms. For similar reasons urban populations tended to
look down upon rural folk as slow and unreliable. "They don't show up
on time! You never know whether they'll keep an appointment." Such
complaints could be traced directly to the difference between Second
Wave work based on heightened interdependence and the First Wave work
centered in the field and the home.

Once the Second Wave became dominant even the most intimate routines
of life were locked into the industrial pacing system. In the United
States and the Soviet Union, in Singapore and Sweden, in France and
Denmark, Germany and Japan, families arose as one, ate at the same
time, commuted, worked, returned home, went to bed, slept, and even
made love more or less in unison as the entire civilization, in
addition to standardization and specialization, applied the principle
of synchronization.













