# The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies: Standardization

The most familiar of [..] Second Wave principles is
standardization. Everyone knows that industrial societies turn out
millions of identical products. Fewer people have stopped to notice,
however, that once the market became important, we did more than
simply standardize Coca-Cola bottles, light bulbs, and auto
transmissions. We applied the same principle to many other
things. Among the first to grasp the importance of this idea was
Theodore Vail who, at the turn of the century, built the American
Telephone & Telegram Company into a giant.

Working as a railway postal clerk in the late 1860's, Vail had noticed
that no two letters necessarily went to their destinations via the
same route. Sacks of mail traveled back and forth, often taking weeks
or months to reach their destinations. Vail introduced the idea of
standardized routing—all letters going to the same place would go the
same way—and helped revolutionize the post office. When he later
formed AT&T, he set out to place an identical telephone in every
American home.

Vail standardized not only the telephone handset and all its
components but AT&Ts business procedures and administration as
well. [..]  What Vail recognized is that to succeed in the Second Wave
environment, "software"—i.e., procedures and administrative
routines—had to be standardized along with hardware.

Vail was only one of the Great Standardizes who shaped industrial
society. Another was Frederick Winslow Taylor, a machinist turned
crusader, who believed that work could be made scientific by
standardizing the steps each worker performed. In the early decades of
this century Taylor decided that there was one best (standard) way to
perform each job, one best (standard) tool to perform it with, and a
stipulated (standard) tune in which to complete it.

Armed with this philosophy, he became the world's leading management
guru. In his time, and later, he was compared with Freud, Marx, and
Franklin. Nor were capitalist employers, eager to squeeze the last
ounce of productivity from their workers, alone in their admiration
for Taylorism, with its efficiency experts, piece-work schemes, and
rate-busters. Communists shared their enthusiasm. Indeed, Lenin urged
that Taylor's methods be adapted for use in socialist production. An
industrializer first and a Communist second, Lenin, too, was a zealous
believer in standardization.

In Second Wave societies, hiring procedures as well as work were
increasingly standardized. Standardized tests were used to identify
and weed out the supposedly unfit, especially in the civil
service. Pay scales were standardized throughout whole industries,
along with fringe benefits, lunch hours, holidays, and grievance
procedures. To prepare youth for the job market, educators designed
standardized curricula. Men like Binet and Terman devised standardized
intelligence tests. School grading policies, admission procedures, and
accreditation rules were similarly standardized. The multiple-choice
test came into its own.

The mass media, meanwhile, disseminated standardizing imagery, so that
millions read the same advertisements, the same news, the same short
stories. The repression of minority languages by central governments,
combined with the influence of mass communications, led to the near
disappearance of local and regional dialects or even whole languages,
such as Welsh and Alsatian. "Standard" American, English, French, or,
for that matter, Russian, supplanted "nonstandard"
languages. Different parts of the country began to look alike, as
identical gas stations, billboards, and houses cropped up
everywhere. The principle of standardization ran through every aspect
of daily life.

At an even deeper level, industrial civilization needed standardized
weights and measures. It is no accident that one of the first acts of
the French Revolution, which ushered the age of industrialism into
France, was an attempt to replace the crazy-quilt patchwork of
measuring units, common in preindustrial Europe, with the metric
system and a new calendar. Uniform measures were spread through much
of the world by the Second Wave.

Moreover, if mass production required the standardization of machines,
products, and processes, the ever-expanding market demanded a
corresponding standardization of money, and even prices. Historically,
money had been issued by banks and private individuals as well as by
kings. Even as late as the nineteenth century privately minted money
was still in use in parts of the United States, and the practice
lasted until 1935 in Canada. Gradually, however, industrializing
nations suppressed all nongovernmental currencies and managed to
impose a single standard currency in their place.

Until the nineteenth century, moreover, it was still common for buyers
and sellers in industrial countries to haggle over every sale in the
time-honored fashion of a Cairo bazaar. In 1825 a young Northern Irish
immigrant named A. T. Stewart arrived in New York, opened a dry-goods
store, and shocked customers and competitors alike by introducing a
fixed price for every item. This one-price policy—price
standardization—made Stewart one of the merchant princes of his era
and cleared away one of the key obstacles to the development of mass
distribution.

Whatever their other disagreements, advanced Second Wave thinkers
shared the conviction that standardization was efficient. At many
levels, therefore, the Second Wave brought a flattening out of
differences through a relentless application of the principle of
standardization.
