# The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies: Centralization

Finally, all industrial nations developed centralization into a fine
art. While the Church and many First Wave rulers knew perfectly well
how to centralize power, they dealt with far less complex societies
and were crude amateurs by contrast with the men and women who
centralized industrial societies from the ground floor up.

All complicated societies require a mixture of both centralized and
decentralized operations. But the shift from a basically decentralized
First Wave economy, with each locality largely responsible for
producing its own necessities, to the integrated national economies of
the Second Wave led to totally new methods for centralizing
power. These came into play at the level of individual companies,
industries, and the economy as a whole.

The early railroads provide a classic illustration. Compared with
other businesses they were the giants of their day. In the United
States in 1850 only forty-one factories had a capitalization of 250
thousand dollars or more. By contrast, the New York Central Railroad
as early as 1860 boasted a capitalization of 30 million dollars. To
run such a gargantuan enterprise, new management methods were needed.

The early railroad managers, therefore, like the managers of titte
space program in our own era, had to invent new techniques. They
standardized technologies, fares, and schedules. They synchronized
operations over hundreds of miles. They created specialized new
occupations and departments. They concentrated capital, energy, and
people. They fought to maximize the scale of their networks. And to
accomplish all this they created new forms of organization based on
centralization of information and command.

Employees were divided into "line" and "staff." Daily reports were
initiated to provide data on car movements, loadings, damages, lost
freight, repairs, engine miles, et cetera. All this information flowed
up a centralized chain of command until it reached the general
superintendent who made the decisions and sent orders down the line.

The railroads, as business historian Alfred D. Chandler, Jr., has
shown, soon became a model for other large organizations, and
centralized management came to be regarded as an advanced,
sophisticated tool in all the Second Wave nations.

In politics, too, the Second Wave encouraged centralization. In the
United States, as early as the late 1780's, this was illustrated by
the battle to replace the loose, decentralist Articles of
Confederation with a more centralist Constitution. Generally the First
Wave rural interests resisted the concentration of power in the
national government, while Second Wave commercial interests led by
Hamilton argued, in The Federalist and elsewhere, that a strong
central government was essential not only for military and foreign
policy reasons but for economic growth.

The resultant Constitution of 1787 was an ingenious
compromise. Because First Wave forces were still strong, the
Constitution reserved important powers to the states rather than the
central government. To prevent overly strong central power it also
called for a unique separation of legislative, executive, and judicial
powers. But the Constitution also contained elastic language that
would eventually permit the federal government to extend its reach
drastically.

As industrialization pushed the political system toward greater
centralization, the government in Washington took on an increasing
number of powers and responsibilities and monopolized more and more
decision-making at the center. Within the federal government,
meanwhile, power shifted from Congress and the courts to the most
centralist of three branches—the Executive. By the Nixon years,
historian Arthur Schlesinger (himself once an ardent centralizer) was
attacking the "imperial presidency."

The pressures toward political centralization were even stronger
outside the United States. A quick look at Sweden, Japan, Britain, or
France is enough to make the U.S. system seem decentralized by
comparison. Jean-Francois Revel, author of Without Marx or Jesus,
makes this point in describing how governments respond to political
protest: "When a demonstration is forbidden in France, there is never
any doubt about the source of the prohibition. If it is a question of
a major political demonstration, it is the [central] government," he
says. "In the United States, however, when a demonstration is
forbidden, the first question everyone asks is, 'By whom?'" Revel
points out that it is usually some local authority operating
autonomously.

The extremes of political centralization were found, of course, in the
Marxist industrial nations. In 1850 Marx called for a "decisive
centralization of power in the hands of the state." Engels, like
Hamilton before him, attacked decentralized confederations as "an
enormous step backward." Later on the Soviets, eager to accelerate
industrialization, proceeded to construct the most highly centralized
political and economic structure of all, submitting even the smallest
of production decisions to the control of central planners.

The gradual centralization of a once decentralized economy was aided,
moreover, by a crucial invention whose very name reveals its purpose:
the central bank.

In 1694, at the very dawn of the industrial age, while Newcomen was
still tinkering with the steam engine, William Paterson organized the
Bank of England—which became a template for similar centralist
institutions in all Second Wave countries. No country could complete
its Second Wave phase without constructing its own equivalent of this
machine for the central control of money and credit.

Paterson's bank sold government bonds; it issued government-backed
currency; it later began to regulate the lending practices of other
banks. Eventually it took on the primary function of all central banks
today: central control of the money supply. In 1800 the Banque de
France was formed for similar purposes. This was followed by the
formation of the Reichsbank in 1875.

In the United States the collision between First and Second Wave
forces led to a major battle over central banking shortly after the
adoption of the constitution. Hamilton, the most brilliant advocate of
Second Wave policies, argued for a national bank on the English
model. The South and the frontier West, still wedded to agriculture,
opposed him. Nevertheless, with the support of the industrializing
Northeast, he succeeded in forcing through legislation that created
the Bank of the United States—forerunner of today's Federal Reserve
System.

Employed by governments to regulate the level and rate of market
activity, central banks introduced—by the back door, as it were—a
degree of unofficial short-range planning into capitalist
economies. Money flowed through every artery in Second Wave societies,
both capitalist and socialist. Both needed, and therefore created, a
centralized money pumping station. Central banking and centralized
government marched hand in hand. Centralization was another dominating
principle of Second Wave civilization.










