# Green Ammonia

[Link](https://ammoniaindustry.com/haldor-topsoes-solid-oxide-electrolyzer/)

[Danish company] Haldor Topsoe has greatly improved the near-term
prospects for green ammonia by announcing a demonstration of its
next-generation ammonia synthesis plant. This new technology uses a
solid oxide electrolysis cell to make synthesis gas (hydrogen and
nitrogen), which feeds Haldor Topsoe’s existing technology: the
Haber-Bosch plant. The product is ammonia, made from air, water, and
renewable electricity ...

First, the technology owner: Haldor Topsoe is a highly respected
technology development company, and it commands a global
market-leading position in the ammonia industry (it has built 60
ammonia plants since 2000 and currently services 248 ammonia catalyst
charges around the world). Haldor Topsoe’s status makes it credible
when it claims, as it does in recent presentations, that its new
technology could be commercially available by 2030.

Second, the technology: Haldor Topsoe’s solid oxide electrolysis cell
(SOEC) ammonia plant represents an optimized integration of
electrolyzer and Haber-Bosch (HB) units. It has the potential to
reduce both capex and opex, relative to other electrolyzer
technologies but also relative to conventional ammonia plants using
natural gas. The system has been designed to reduce capex by
eliminating the need for an air separation unit (ASU). This is nice
for the prospects of large-scale green ammonia but, combined with the
scalability of electrolyzers, it significantly improves the economics
of small-scale ammonia production (at small scales, the ASU becomes
very expensive). For opex, which is dominated by energy costs in any
ammonia technology, the SOEC-HB is estimated to produce green ammonia
with a specific energy consumption of about 7.2 MWh per ton, which is
26 GJ per ton. In other words, its green ammonia plant could be more
energy efficient than today’s best state-of-the-art natural gas-fed
ammonia plant, which consumes around 28 GJ per ton [..]

“We expect that ammonia can be used for transportation and efficient
storage of energy. The greatest advantage of ammonia is that it has a
high energy density which makes it an effective fuel and energy
storage option – and it can thereby solve some of the most important
challenges of creating a sustainable energy system of the future,”
says project leader, Senior Principal Scientist John Bøgild Hansen. ...

In conventional plants today, ammonia is made by combining hydrogen,
produced from coal or natural gas or another fossil fuel, with
nitrogen, produced by an air separation unit (ASU). Fossil
hydrocarbons aren’t the only viable source of hydrogen but, in most
places, they are the cheapest. I’ve previously written about how
today’s natural gas-fed Haber-Bosch plant is almost perfectly energy
efficient, due to decades of incremental innovation co-optimizing the
steam methane reformation (SMR) units, which produce hydrogen from
natural gas, and the HB units.

Since the start of the 20th Century, however, ammonia plants around
the world have used electrolyzers to produce hydrogen from water,
making industrial quantities of carbon-free “green” ammonia. Due to
economics, only a couple of these plants still operate today. This
technology always uses alkaline electrolysis cells (AEC) to produce
the hydrogen that is fed to the HB unit. AEC is a mature technology
but, unlike SMR, it did not evolve alongside HB; it has not been
integrated and co-optimized over decades into the design and
engineering of an ammonia plant. ...

---

Fascinating. Solid oxide electrolyzers do not utilize rare-earth
metals. The energy density of ammonia is high.  The word Haber-Bosch
can sound familiar, this process is the breakthrough technology that
allowed the production of fertilizers, and thereby more than 5-fold
increase in agriculture output.

Also

[Ammonia](../../2018/10/ammonia.md)

[Fracked Up (and Ammonia)](../../2018/10/fracked-up.md)

[CSIRO](../../2018/10/csiro.md)

[Bill David Presentation](https://youtu.be/qEut7o-b5hY?t=250)

[GenCell and Ammonia](2019/07/gencell.md)


