# Hacking the Constitution

*Permanent Record*, Snowden

America’s Founders were skilled engineers of political power,
particularly attuned to the perils posed by legal subterfuge and the
temptations of the presidency toward exercising monarchical
authority. To forestall such eventualities, they designed a system,
laid out in the Constitution’s first three articles, that established
the US government in three coequal branches, each supposed to provide
checks and balances to the others. But when it came to protecting the
privacy of American citizens in the digital age, each of these
branches failed in its own way, causing the entire system to halt and
catch fire.  The legislative branch, the two houses of Congress,
willingly abandoned its supervisory role: even as the number of IC
[Intelligence Community] government employees and private contractors
was exploding, the number of congresspeople who were kept informed
about the IC’s capabilities and activities kept dwindling, until only
a few special committee members were apprised in closed-door hearings.

Even then they were only informed of some, but not all, of the IC’s
activities. When rare public hearings on the IC were held, the NSA’s
position was made strikingly clear: The agency would not cooperate, it
would not be honest, and, what was worse, through classification and
claims of secrecy it would force America’s federal legislatures to
collaborate in its deception. In early 2013, for instance, James
Clapper, then the director of National Intelligence, testified under
oath to the US Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that the NSA
did not engage in bulk collection of the communications of American
citizens. To the question, “Does the NSA collect any type of data at
all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?” Clapper
replied, “No, sir,” and then added, “There are cases where they could
inadvertently perhaps collect, but not wittingly.” That was a witting,
bald-faced lie, of course, not just to Congress but to the American
people. More than a few of the congresspeople to whom Clapper was
testifying knew very well that what he was saying was untrue, yet they
refused, or felt legally powerless, to call him out on it.  The
failure of the judiciary was, if anything, even more
disappointing.

The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), which oversees
intelligence surveillance within the United States, is a specialized
body that meets in secret and hears only from the government. It was
designed to grant individual warrants for foreign intelligence
collection, and has always been especially accommodating to the NSA,
approving well over 99 percent of the agency’s requests—a rate more
suggestive of a ministerial rubber stamp than a deliberative judicial
process. After 9/11, the court expanded its role from authorizing the
surveillance of specific individuals to ruling on the legality and
constitutionality of broad programmatic surveillance, without any
adversarial scrutiny. A body that previously had been tasked with
approving the surveillance of Foreign Terrorist #1 or Foreign Spy #2
was now being used to legitimize the whole combined infrastructure of
PRISM and upstream collection.

Judicial review of that infrastructure was reduced, in the words of
the ACLU to a secret court upholding secret programs by secretly
reinterpreting federal law.  When civil society groups like the ACLU
tried to challenge the NSA’s activities in ordinary, open federal
courts, a curious thing happened. The government didn’t defend itself
on the ground that the surveillance activities were legal or
constitutional. It declared, instead, that the ACLU and its clients
had no right to be in court at all, because the ACLU could not prove
that its clients had in fact been surveilled. Moreover, the ACLU could
not use the litigation to seek evidence of surveillance, because the
existence (or nonexistence) of that evidence was “a state secret,” and
leaks to journalists didn’t count. In other words, the court couldn’t
recognize the information that was publicly known from having been
published in the media; it could only recognize the information that
the government officially confirmed as being publicly known. This
invocation of classification meant that neither the ACLU, nor anyone
else, could ever establish standing to raise a legal challenge in open
court. To my disgust, in February 2013 the US Supreme Court decided 5
to 4 to accept the government’s reasoning and dismissed an ACLU and
Amnesty International lawsuit challenging mass surveillance without
even considering the legality of the NSA’s activities.  Finally, there
was the executive branch, the primary cause of this constitutional
breach.

The president’s office, through the Justice Department, had committed
the original sin of secretly issuing directives that authorized mass
surveillance in the wake of 9/11. Executive overreach has only
continued in the decades since, with administrations of both parties
seeking to act unilaterally and establish policy directives that
circumvent law—policy directives that cannot be challenged, since
their classification keeps them from being publicly known.  The
constitutional system only functions as a whole if and when each of
its three branches works as intended. When all three don’t just fail,
but fail deliberately and with coordination, the result is a culture
of impunity. I realized that I was crazy to have imagined that the
Supreme Court, or Congress, or President Obama, seeking to distance
his administration from President George W. Bush’s, would ever hold
the IC legally responsible—for anything. It was time to face the fact
that the IC believed themselves above the law, and given how broken
the process was, they were right. The IC had come to understand the
rules of our system better than the people who had created it, and
they used that knowledge to their advantage.  They’d hacked the
Constitution.
