# Robert Masse

Maxwell

Maxwell’s electromagnetic field equations for free space can be
derived from classical elasticity theory as applied to transverse
elastic waves propagating in a perfectly elastic aether..

QM Inconsistency

[Niels Bohr's] first postulated constraint is inconsistent
with classical mechanics, which permits any of a continuum of orbital
paths around the nucleus. The second constraint is inconsistent with
classical electromagnetism, which requires that accelerating electrons
radiate electro-magnetic energy that should be detectable... By
adopting these postulates, Bohr effectively assumed that neither
classical mechanics nor classical electromagnetism is applicable at
the scale of atomic dimensions..

The atomic model initially developed by chemists to explain the
formation and structure of molecules generally differed from the
atomic model developed by physicists primarily in one important
respect: the chemist’s atomic model was static..

From a theorem developed by Earnshaw (1842), we know that stable
equilibrium cannot be attained by a system of stationary point charges
interacting only according to Coulomb’s inverse-square force law...
Electrostatic equilibrium cannot exist by itself. Therefore, the force
keeping atomic electrons from falling into the nucleus cannot simply
be electromagnetic force. Moreover, since the atomic electrons are not
accelerating, the force keeping the atomic electrons from falling into
the nucleus cannot be centrifugal force. Only one possibility remains:
we must conclude that the force keeping the atomic electrons from
falling into the nucleus is the weak nuclear force...

The atom is static as proposed in early atomic models developed by
chemists.. Atoms are observed to possess a very great stability. This
stability can now be seen as the natural result of electron positions
in an atom generally corresponding to a minimum energy
configuration. Classical physics can explain both the stability and
structure of the atom..

Gravitation

Newton’s force law can be used to derive Poisson’s gravitational field
equation. Moreover, since Newton’s force law of gravity is not a
function of time, Poisson’s field equation of gravity only applies to
gravitational fields that are stationary. Therefore, Poisson’s field
equation of gravity and Newton’s force law of gravity must be
mathematically equivalent for a stationary gravitational field... The
physical interpretation of Poisson’s field equation of gravity is,
however, very different from the physical interpretation of Newton’s
force law of gravity. Rather than the action-at-a-distance
interpretation of gravity obtained from Newton’s force law of gravity,
Poisson’s field equation is based upon and must be interpreted in
terms of the existence of a physical medium consisting of contiguous
particles about any material body [aether!]

Relativity

Having concluded that time in our Universe is a result of the flow of
aether into matter, we see that time cannot be modified in any way
(shortened or lengthened). Time is then uniform and absolute
throughout our Universe and is independent of the kinematic properties
and spatial position of any observer. Since absolute motion
(acceleration) exists in our Universe, it is to be expected that
absolute time must also exist.  Time is not relative, and time does to
alter with the motion of any reference system.

We see, therefore, that Einstein’s special theory of relativity, with
its kinematically dependent time, cannot be correct. We also see that,
while Newton was correct in postulating the existence of absolute
time, he was incorrect in assuming that such time is independent of
anything external.  Aether provides not only the absolute frame of
reference in our Universe, but also (together with matter) the
absolute time in our Universe. Time is not, then, a fundamental entity
of our Universe..

Spooky QM

[Quantum action-at-a-distance] experiments performed using Bell’s test
have generally used photons as the ‘particles’ and the polarization of
photons as the discrete parameter. Photons are transverse waves,
however, and not particles. Since the waves are split by the
polarizer, the emerging waves are generally not photons. Their energy
is no longer defined by their frequency. It is not clear that all
factors influencing the results of Bell’s test have been fully
understood as yet