# Why MMT Is a Ruse

MMT's main message is "money printing does not matter" which is their
tool to unshackle the left from becoming austere, balancing budgets
while the other side happily deficit-spends and cuts services. You
print, it is okay they say, until you see inflation, then you can tax
to take excess money out of the circulation, calming the economy.

There are major deficiencies with this view. Printing might not result
in inflation for a *very long time*, while the printed money in the
current system will almost certainly flow to the rich making them
wealthier, and cause them to gobble up more assets decreasing
everyone's standard of living.  Egg prices might not go up, but
housing prices will, and now you are spending more on rent / mortage
have less to spend on eggs. Inequality matters. It is not a benign
concept where the rich lives in their own gated world while others
exist in a seperate economy. It is one economy, if a group has more of
something others have less.

I believe MMT types do not understand money, how it flows in the
economy. After 2008 money was printed to bail out the system, there
was no inflation, inequality worsened, economy fell into duldrums,
asset prices rallied. Covid checks did cause brief inflation, but that
money also flowed to the rich, rising asset prices even further. In
both of these cases government should have taxed the wealthy to take
back the money, but according to MMT logic, there was no major
inflation, no need to tax. They think, mistakenly, all money pumped
into the system will increase money velocity, it will circulate among
the many directly, yet there is no such rule in mandating that in
economics. Money can flow anywhere. In an unbalanced economy, it will
flow upwards, and if not taken back via tax *immediately* it will
cause a zombie economy where one quarter of population is effectively
unemployed, working shit jobs just to pay the rent and buy eggs.

That brings us to why MMT is a ruse. Surely its inception is not, some
people, including its originators, genuinely (and foolishly) believe
in the idea. But look at how much media exposure they got with such a
foolish idea. Corporate media loves them, and there is a reason for
that. They love them because they know *MMT is harmless*. The "do not
tax until inflation" is music to their ears, because no matter how
much money is printed they end up with it, that flow causes almost no
inflation. That makes you, the sad MMT follower, the "managed
competition". You exist because the corporations and wealthy has no
problem with you existing.
