# Guiding Regulation, South Korea

(As of 2017, South Korea had the fastest average internet connection
in the world at 28.6 Mbit/s).

The last several months have been a lonely time for FCC Chairman and
anti-net neutrality campaigner Ajit Pai. His one-man charm offensive
has seen him emerge as the most prominent voice in favor of Net
Neutrality repeal. But despite his best efforts, Pai seems genuinely
surprised that both he and the recent repeal are incredibly unpopular.

The crux of Pai’s argument is that America lags behind comparable
nations in digital infrastructure and already pays more for an
inferior product. He claims that the repeal of Net Neutrality will
reopen America’s internet and make us globally competitive
again. However, results in countries such as Portugal and Guatemala
that lack Net Neutrality protections undercut his point. The
privileging of certain services (such as streaming sites and texting
platforms) has seen the internet divided into ‘packages’ that
consumers must pay separate fees to access. Not surprisingly this has
resulted in higher bills and an increasingly segregated internet.

But that doesn’t mean it’s all doom and gloom outside the U.S. In
fact, South Korea – home of the world’s best internet – takes a
radically different approach than the one advocated by
Pai. Encouraging for those who would like to see a meaningful change
to America’s internet policy is the fact that Korea’s internet
infrastructure was incubated through a series of market-friendly
initiatives that sync up very well with what Pai and his fellow
Republicans claim to want. Simply put, Korea has harnessed the
potential of competition among private firms to drive down costs and
improve overall service.

It all starts with choice. Most Americans only have a single internet
service provider to choose from, and companies that enjoy lucrative
local monopolies often spend more of their time trying to protect
their status as the only game in town than on actually improving
service. There is a reason Comcast and other ISPs consistently rank
among America’s most unpopular corporations. In contrast, Korean
consumers have access to multiple ISPs across the country. [..]

While private sector innovation has played a big role in making cheap,
lightning fast internet available across South Korea, forward-thinking
government policies have helped preserve these gains. It all dates
back to Korea’s landmark  “Framework Act on Information Promotion”
which was enacted in 1987 – well before the general public even knew
what the internet was. This policy prioritized equal access for all
citizens through generous subsidies designed to incentivize ISPs to
serve communities across the country. Billions of dollars in
low-interest loans and other aid packages have created tight bonds
between the public and private sector, ensuring that ISPs are open to
regulatory changes while also keeping government policy nimble enough
to adapt to changing conditions.

One example of Korea’s savvy regulatory touch is the establishment of
(relatively high) speed minimums in rural areas. These policies helped
ensure that otherwise neglected communities received equal treatment
by private enterprise. However, the regulations were paired with
funding that allowed ISPs to lay the necessary infrastructure without
incurring losses. Decades later, this legacy of smart planning and
investments has resulted in a true win-win for consumers and
businesses alike. Reliable public wi-fi is widely available – even in
the subway. Now, the world’s first 5G network is even being rolled out
for the upcoming Pyeongchang Olympic games.

It is here that Pai should look for inspiration in his bid to remake
America’s internet. Korea has an ironclad Net Neutrality policy that
ensures smaller sites enjoy the same privileges as its dominant
portals. This fosters competition and keeps both ISPs and tech
companies from becoming complacent. In addition, South Korea has taken
steps to position itself as a start-up friendly economy, and its open,
fair internet is key to this approach. The country’s net neutrality
protections can best be viewed as a natural extension of the same
competition-heavy philosophy that underscores its ISP
regulations. This combination of efficient regulation in internet
hardware and software has resulted in an end product that is
head-and-shoulders above America’s scattershot internet.

By utilizing regulatory power to ensure competition and guarantee a
rules-based digital ecosystem, South Korea has embraced a vision of
government and corporate interests working in tandem that should make
conservatives in America blush. Unfortunately, Pai has chosen to go in
the opposite direction, opening up ground on the left to those calling
for municipal broadband or even a nationalized internet that is
treated as a public utility.

Instead of stifling competition and innovation through a series of
reforms that will protect established ISPs and tech firms, Pai could
achieve the impact he claims to want by creating a level playing field
that gives startups an opportunity to disrupt the status quo. Many of
Silicon Valley’s biggest names trace their origins to little more than
a dimly lit garage and a few friends that shared a common vision. But
the FCC’s Net Neutrality repeal threatens all that made this era of
innovation possible. The public would be better served by an FCC that
enhances competitiveness by following the South Korean blueprint.

