# The Megastate

The shift from the national state to the Megastate began in the last
decades of the nineteenth century. The first small step toward the
Megastate was Bismarck’s invention in the 1880s of the Welfare
State. Bismarck’s goal was to combat the rapidly rising socialist
tide. It was a response to the threat of class war. Government had
previously been perceived exclusively as a political agency. Bismarck
made government into a social agency. His own welfare measures health
insurance, insurance against industrial accidents, old-age pensions
(followed thirty years later, after World War I, by the British
invention of unemployment insurance)—were modest enough. But the
principle was radical; and it is the principle that has had far
greater effect than the individual actions taken in its name. [So the
welfare state was born ..].    The Great Depression gave rise to the
belief that the national government is—and should be—in control of the
economic weather. The English economist John Maynard Keynes [..]
claimed that [the] national economy is totally determined by
governmental policy, to whit, by government spending. However much
today’s economists otherwise differ from each other, all of them:
Friedmanites, supply-siders, and the other post-Keynesians all follow
Keynes in these two tenets. They all consider the nation-state and its
government the master of the national economy and the controller of
its economic weather. [Manager state is born].

The two world wars of this century transformed the nation-state into a
“fiscal state.” Until World War I, no government in history was ever
able—even in wartime—to obtain from its people more than a very small
fraction of the country’s national income, perhaps 5 or 6 percent. But
in World War I every belligerent, even the poorest, found that there
was practically no limit to what government can squeeze out of the
population. By the outbreak of World War I, the economies of all the
belligerent countries were fully monetized. As a result, the two
poorest countries, Austria-Hungary and Russia, in several war years
could actually tax and borrow more than the total annual income of
their respective populations. They managed to liquidate capital
accumulated over long decades and turn it into war materiel [..].

Joseph Schumpeter, who was then still living in Austria, understood
immediately what had happened. But the rest of the economists and most
governments needed a second lesson: World War II. Since then, however,
all developed and many developing countries have become “fiscal
states.” [..] They have all come to believe that there are no economic
limits to what government can tax or borrow and, therefore, no
economic limits to what government can spend [..]

The last of the mutations that created the megastate, the Cold War
State, was a response to technology.

Since 1500 or so, when the knight had become obsolete, warfare
increasingly was waged with weapons produced in ordinary peacetime
facilities with the minimum of delay or adaptation. In the American
Civil War, cannons were still being produced in peacetime workshops
and factories hastily adapted after hostilities had broken
out. Textile mills switched production practically overnight from
civilian clothing to uniforms. Indeed, the two major wars fought
during the second half of the nineteenth century, the American Civil
War (1861-65) and the Franco-Prussian War (1870-71), were still
largely fought by civilians who had put on their uniforms only a few
weeks before engaging in combat.

Modern technology [it was argued] had changed all this. The wartime
economy could no longer be an adaptation of the peacetime economy. The
two had to be separate. Both weapons and fighting men had to be made
available, in large quantities, before the outbreak of hostilities. To
produce either required increasingly long lead times.

Defense, it was implicit in the [argument] no longer means keeping the
warfare away from civilian society and civilian economy. Under
conditions of modern technology, defense means a permanent wartime
society and a permanent wartime economy. It means the “Cold War
State.”

But even after World War II, the United States for a few short years
tried to revert to a “normal” peacetime state. It tried to disarm as
fast as possible, and as completely as possible. The coming of the
Cold War in the Truman and Eisenhower years changed all this. Since
then, the Cold War State has been the dominant organization of
international politics.

By 1960, the Megastate had become a political reality in developed
countries in all its aspects: as social agency; as master of the
economy; as fiscal state; and in most countries as Cold War State.
