# European Green Deal

[Link](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?qid=1576150542719&uri=COM%3A2019%3A640%3AFIN)

These policy reforms will help to ensure effective carbon pricing
throughout the economy. This will encourage changes in consumer and
business behaviour, and facilitate an increase in sustainable public
and private investment. The different pricing instruments must
complement each other and jointly provide a coherent policy
framework. Ensuring that taxation is aligned with climate objectives
is also essential. The Commission will propose to revise the Energy
Taxation Directive 9 , focusing on environmental issues, and proposing
to use the provisions in the Treaties that allow the European
Parliament and the Council to adopt proposals in this area through the
ordinary legislative procedure by qualified majority voting rather
than by unanimity.

As long as many international partners do not share the same ambition
as the EU, there is a risk of carbon leakage, either because
production is transferred from the EU to other countries with lower
ambition for emission reduction, or because EU products are replaced
by more carbon-intensive imports. If this risk materialises, there
will be no reduction in global emissions, and this will frustrate the
efforts of the EU and its industries to meet the global climate
objectives of the Paris Agreement.

Should differences in levels of ambition worldwide persist, as the EU
increases its climate ambition, the Commission will propose a carbon
border adjustment mechanism, for selected sectors, to reduce the risk
of carbon leakage...

From 1970 to 2017, the annual global extraction of materials tripled
and it continues to grow 13 , posing a major global risk. About half
of total greenhouse gas emissions and more than 90% of biodiversity
loss and water stress come from resource extraction and processing of
materials, fuels and food...

While the circular economy action plan will guide the transition of
all sectors, action will focus in particular on resource-intensive
sectors such as textiles, construction, electronics and plastics. The
Commission will follow up on the 2018 plastics strategy focusing,
among other things, on measures to tackle intentionally added micro
plastics and unintentional releases of plastics, for example from
textiles and tyre abrasion. The Commission will develop requirements
to ensure that all packaging in the EU market is reusable or
recyclable in an economically viable manner by 2030, will develop a
regulatory framework for biodegradable and bio-based plastics, and
will implement measures on single use plastics...

EU industry needs ‘climate and resource frontrunners’ to develop the
first commercial applications of breakthrough technologies in key
industrial sectors by 2030. Priority areas include clean hydrogen,
fuel cells and other alternative fuels, energy storage, and carbon
capture, storage and utilisation. As an example, the Commission will
support clean steel breakthrough technologies leading to a zero-carbon
steel making process by 2030 and will explore whether part of the
funding being liquidated under the European Coal and Steel Community
can be used. More broadly, the EU Emissions Trading System Innovation
Fund will help to deploy such large-scale innovative projects...

The price of transport must reflect the impact it has on the
environment and on health. Fossil-fuel subsidies should end and, in
the context of the revision of the Energy Taxation Directive, the
Commission will look closely at the current tax exemptions including
for aviation and maritime fuels and at how best to close any
loopholes...

The EU should in parallel ramp-up the production and deployment of
sustainable alternative transport fuels. By 2025, about 1 million
public recharging and refuelling stations will be needed for the 13
million zero- and low-emission vehicles expected on European roads.
