# Hyperinflation

*Currency Wars*

Currency War I began in 1921 in Weimar Germany when the Reichsbank,
Germany’s central bank, set about to destroy the value of the German
mark through massive money printing and hyperinflation. Presided over
by Reichsbank head Dr. Rudolf von Havenstein, a Prussian
lawyer-turned-banker, the inflation proceeded primarily through the
Reichsbank’s purchases of bills from the German government to supply
the government with the money needed to fund budget deficits
and government spending [sounds like QE?]. This was one of the most
destructive and pervasive monetary debasements ever seen in a major
developed economy [..].

A myth has persisted ever since that Germany destroyed its currency to
get out from under onerous war reparations demanded by England and
France in the Treaty of Versailles. In fact, those reparations were
tied to “gold marks,” defined as a fixed amount of gold or its
equivalent in non-German currency, and subsequent treaty protocols
were based on a percentage of German exports regardless of the paper
currency value. Those gold- and export-related specifications could
not be inflated away. However, the Reichsbank did see an opportunity
to increase German exports by debasing its currency both to make
German goods more affordable abroad—one typical reason for a
debasement—as well as to encourage tourism and foreign
investment. These methods could provide foreign exchange needed to pay
reparations without diminishing the amount of reparations directly.

As inflation slowly began to take off in late 1921, it was not
immediately perceived as a threat. The German people understood that
prices were going up, but that did not automatically translate into
the equivalent notion that the currency was collapsing. German banks
had liabilities nearly equal to their assets and so were largely
hedged. Many businesses owned hard assets such as land, plant,
equipment and inventories that gained nominal value as the currency
collapsed and therefore were also hedged. Some of those companies also
owed debts that evaporated as the amounts owed became worthless, and
so were enriched by being relieved of their debts. Many large German
corporations, predecessors of today’s global giants, had operations
outside of Germany, which earned hard currency and further insulated
their parent companies from the worst effects of the collapse of the
mark.

Capital flight is a traditional response to currency collapse. Those
who could convert marks into Swiss francs, gold or other stores of
value did so and moved their savings abroad. Even the German
bourgeoisie was not immediately alarmed as losses in the value of
their currency were offset by stock market gains. The fact that these
gains were denominated in soon to be worthless marks had not yet
occurred to many. Finally, those who held unionized and government
jobs were initially hedged as well because the government simply
granted wage increases commensurate with inflation.

Of course, not everyone had a government or union job, stock
portfolio, hard assets or foreign operations to insulate them. Those
most devastated were middle-class pensioners who no longer qualified
for raises and savers who kept their funds in banks rather than
stocks. These Germans were completely financially ruined. Many were
forced to sell their furniture to raise a few marks to pay for food
and keep going. Pianos were particularly in demand and became a form
of currency on their own. Some elderly couples whose savings had been
destroyed would go into the kitchen, hold hands, place their heads in
the oven and turn on the gas in a poignant form of suicide. Property
crime became rampant and, in the later stages, riots and looting were
common [..]

The Weimar hyperinflation actually achieved a number of important
political goals, a fact that had repercussions throughout the 1920s
and 1930s. Hyperinflation unified the German people in opposition to
“foreign speculators” [..later used to death by a certain dictator
with a funny mustache ..] also strengthened the hand of German
industrialists who controlled hard assets in contrast to those relying
solely on financial assets. These industrialists emerged from the
hyperinflation more powerful than before because of their ability to
hoard hard currency abroad and buy up assets of failed enterprises on
the cheap at home.

Finally, the hyperinflation showed that countries could, in effect,
play with fire when it came to paper currencies, knowing that a simple
resort to the gold standard or some other tangible asset such as land
could restore order when conditions seemed opportune—exactly what
Germany did. This is not to argue that German hyperinflation in 1922
was a carefully thought-out plan, only that hyperinflation can be used
as a policy lever. Hyperinflation produces fairly predictable sets of
winners and losers and prompts certain behaviors and therefore can be
used politically to rearrange social and economic relations among
debtors, creditors, labor and capital, while gold is kept available to
clean up the wreckage if necessary [and it gave rise to Hitler].

Mallaby, *More Money Than God*

German unification did not merely cause the Bundesbank to act in a
[..] predictable manner. It exposed the central bank’s conflicted role
as the anchor of the deutsche mark and simultaneously of Europe’s
exchange-rate mechanism. This system had been set up in 1979 to dampen
currency fluctuations within Europe, allowing companies to invest and
trade without worrying that wild exchange rate swings would upend
their business models. For more than a decade, the mechanism worked
well, stabilizing currencies without going to the extreme of unifying
them. Participating currencies were allowed to move against one
another within narrow bands; and if that flexibility was not enough, a
country could negotiate devaluation with its European partners. These
rules afforded national governments some room to use interest rates to
manage their economic cycles. The system balanced the objectives of
exchange-rate stability on the one hand and interest-rate flexibility
on the other.

German unification strained this compromise. It created inflationary
pressure within Germany, pushing the Bundesbank to raise interest
rates. But the German rate hikes came at a time when other European
economies were experiencing a recession that cried out for lower
interest rates. High interest rates in Germany coupled with relatively
low rates elsewhere caused money to flow into deutsche marks; as a
result, the weaker European currencies, notably the Italian lira and
the British pound, traded near the bottom of the band permitted by the
exchange-rate mechanism—and threatened to break out of it. This
presented Europe’s governments with two options. Germany could cut its
rates in order to attract less capital, while the Italians and British
did the opposite. Or central banks could intervene in the currency
markets, selling marks and buying lire and pounds. If both
interest-rate adjustment and currency intervention failed, Italy and
Britain would be forced into devaluation [..].

Ever since the hyperinflation that had fueled Hitler’s rise, the
Germans had prized monetary stability. In the United States, the
Federal Reserve’s statutory mandate requires it to target both low
inflation and full employment; in Germany, the Bundesbank’s mission
was exclusively to fight inflation. For this reason, it was clear that
the Germans’ first instinct would be to refuse to cut interest rates
so long as the costs of reunification were causing budget deficits;
and if Germany hung tough, the pressure on sterling would grow ever
greater [..BB did hung tough, sterling is attacked by speculators
-sold at incredible amounts, led by Soros' Quantum Fund-, finally
Britain gives up]

That evening, [British official] Lamont called a press conference in
the Treasury’s central courtyard. At 7:30 p.m., facing a massive
battery of TV cameras from all over the world, he announced Britain’s
exit from the exchange-rate mechanism [..]

[Soros protege] Druckenmiller’s coup also served to show that currency
pegs were vulnerable in a world of deep and liquid markets. During the
1950s and 1960s, the system of fixed currencies worked well because
regulations restricted the flow of capital across borders; but now
that these controls were gone, it was time for governments to accept
the limits to their power over money. They could either use interest
rates to manage the value of their currency, so dampening
exchange-rate swings, or they could use them to manage their economic
ups and downs, so dampening recessions. Attempts to have it both ways
via “flexible pegs” such as the exchange-rate mechanism were likely to
backfire [..] The implications of a world featuring [..] macro
investors were not immediately absorbed by policy makers. As happens
after every financial crisis, the first instinct was to vilify the
markets rather than to learn the awkward lessons that they teach: in
this case, that currency pegs were dangerous.
