# Mystery Meat

The business environment after the summer of 2007 was tough [..]. One
solution, according to management, was to go elephant hunting [..] In
good times, transparent, flat-fee commission business was steady and
paid the bills; it was a volume business. But if the register wasn’t
ringing, as was now the case, new types of business had to be
found. What could make up the fastest for lost revenue? Products that
were quick hits, that had very high margin embedded in them. As a
general rule on Wall Street, the less transparent a product is, the
more money is in it for the firm. Over-the-counter derivatives (OTC,
meaning not listed on an exchange) and structured products (complex,
nontransparent derivatives with all sorts of bells and whistles) were
the trades to go for [..].

[After the subprime crisis] Goldman didn’t go down. But the storm kept
raging. [One way to survive] was to try to convince your clients to
buy structured derivative products (black boxes) that might
temporarily give them some hope: [..] Since these structured products
were created by the bank that sold them and not widely traded, they
came with the markup one expects from any bespoke product. These kinds
of murky promises were legally okay, because in the twenty pages of
disclaimers on the document, somewhere there would be a line that
read, “This may or may not be accurate; we may or may not believe what
we’re telling you; we may or may not have the opposite view…” [..]

[The derivative -sausage- named] Abacus 2007-AC1 [was prepared for]
John Paulson [..] the hedge fund manager who since early 2006 had been
raking in huge sums by shorting the mortgage market. [..]  Paulson had
personally selected the mortgage securities that went into the
product, using a single criterion: which were most likely to
fail. [Paulson shortsells this CDO, but Goldman needs a sucker on the
other side to buy this, and they were] ABN AMRO and IKB, the two big
European banks that lost the $1 billion Paulson gained. [SEC files
charges on this shady deal, Goldman settles ..].

After the settlement, a lot of people at Goldman felt relieved. Maybe,
they thought, with all this out of the way, we can move on. Yet
business didn’t get a lot better: the firm’s reputation had been
damaged with some clients. A lot of clients were no longer comfortable
taking counterparty risk with Goldman Sachs. They would be willing to
trade only listed, transparent products that went through a
clearinghouse. That way the clients’ money, and market exposure, would
be safe, irrespective of what happened to the bank they were trading
with. Not the case with OTC derivatives or structured products, with
which you would be subject to the fate of the bank with whom you did
the trade [..].

Throughout the 2000s, Wall Street structured complex derivatives to
help European governments such as Greece and Italy mask their debt and
make their budgets look healthier than they actually were. These deals
generated hundreds of millions of dollars in fees for the banks, but
ultimately helped these countries kick the can, and their problems,
down the road. Failing to address these problems culminated in the
European sovereign debt crisis that the world is trying to deal with
today [..].

I saw many sales leaders in different product groups [worrying about
the question w]hich axes do we need to get off our books?” [..] An axe
is a position the firm wants to get rid of or a risky position it
wants to shore up. The firm believes, deep down, that one outcome is
going to transpire, yet it advises the client to do the opposite, so
the firm can then take the other side of the trade and implement its
own proprietary bet [..] The axe du jour when I arrived in London in
2011 was getting clients to buy or sell options (puts or calls) on the
largest European banks, such as SocGen, BNP Paribas, UniCredit, Intesa
[..].  Aside from the obvious dishonesty of continually switching our
recommendations to clients based on what our traders wanted to do, I
was bothered by the European bank-options axe also because of the
impact it was having on markets. (Some of these European banking
stocks could move more than 5 percent in a day.)  And these weren’t
abstract assets. These were the national banks of sovereign nations,
countries with millions of citizens who were depending on their
governments to get their shit together. Jerking around the fates of
their banks struck me as highly irresponsible [..].

What made matters worse, and even murkier, was the fact that a
well-known Goldman Sachs strategist had come out with a semisecret
report that went to only a select number of clients. [..] In his
commentary, the strategist painted a particularly dire picture and
suggested that European banks might need to raise $1 trillion in
capital. He suggested some derivatives plays to capitalize on (or
hedge against) this turmoil. During the same time period that a
Goldman strategist was predicting the implosion of the European
banking system, there were many days that our trading desk wanted to
convince clients that today is a day to buy [..] It was all too
much. We had advised Greece all those years ago how to cover up its
debt by trading a derivative. Now that the chickens had come home to
roost, we were [advising on how to profit from it ..].

--

Smith's book is a continuation of his op-ed piece on NYT published on
the day he left GS.

The arrival of the 3W is causing problems for old financial firms, as
concentration, centralization gives way to decentralization, it's no
surprise they start to lose their edge. Electronic brokerages today
provide cheap and easy access to markets, anyone can trade equities,
options, futures, and even compose their own brand of portfolios. With
that kind of competition out there, firms like GS increasingly had to
go towards OTC route, became predatory, especially on other
"concentrated" institutions such as municipal governments, sovereign
banks, but causing risky entanglements in the process that are even
more concentrated.  















