# Geotechnology

To understand and frame the ever-shifting nature of international 
relations, analysts have traditionally relied upon both geopolitics and 
geoeconomics. The discipline of geopolitics dates to nineteenth-century 
European scholars and diplomats whose primary concerns were territorial 
control and the capability to project dominance overseas. Examining the 
fundamental elements of geopolitical advantage (demographics, natural 
resources, forces under arms, warships, conventional and nuclear 
weapons, etc.) remained the dominant approach to analyzing comparative 
power through much of the twentieth century [..].

Geopolitics and geoeconomics complement each other, but even together 
they do not give a full picture of the catalysts for change in world 
affairs. A third area of inquiry is necessary to complete the triangle: 
geotechnology. The geotechnology lens offers an understanding of the 
potent innovations that can tilt geoeconomic advantage through rapid 
commercialization and can have a major geopolitical impact through 
strategic deployment and potential militarization. Whether we’re talking
 about the stirrup and crossbow; steamships and railways; or nuclear 
fusion and the Internet, every era is a time of geotechnological change.
 What is different today is the rate of change, which is ever 
accelerating. 

The perspective afforded by geotechnology informs our understanding of 
global dynamics our understanding of global dynamics in two important 
ways. First, it positions technology alongside economic power, military 
alliances and diplomatic statesmanship as a driver of history. It was 
the ability of Europe’s royal families to harness weaponry and the 
printing press that gave the state the upper hand over other political 
forces in the seventeenth century and created the modern Westphalian 
system. Second, whereas geopolitics largely ignores nonstate actors and 
geoeconomics acknowledges them only as marginal players, geotechnology 
fully recognizes current systemic changes that are driving us into a 
post-Westphalian world. It recognizes that actors leveraging and 
controlling new technologies, even with limited capital and crowdsourced
 manpower, can amass formidable influence as well as a capacity to 
challenge nation-states.








at

January 05, 2013















