# Research and Industry

Link 

In general, research is about expanding the breadth of human 
knowledge, and there is rarely an end-point or measurable outcome. 
Furthermore, science itself needs to be reactive and adaptive because 
researchers around the globe are constantly making discoveries.

This
 is not something I fully appreciated when I entered academia, and I 
found the fast pace with which new projects were undertaken, and their 
scope, to be staggering. New projects tend to be all about excitement, 
diversity and innovative ideas. However, many projects do not actually 
get started, others change beyond all recognition as the science 
underpinning them evolves and some last only until the first 
publication. This means that there is often little consideration for the
 feasibility of a task or the available resources.

This lack of 
certainty (and in many cases, lack of management structure) means that 
coordination is wanting and inefficiency is rife. It is generally 
expected that groups of people will spontaneously organize themselves 
around ideas without any formal mandate or structure—a style some have 
called 'managing from below'. This can be entirely frustrating, but 
attempts to change it are futile.

For example, once I had arrived 
at the institute, I found I was able to manage multiple ill-defined 
projects with ever-changing priorities and goals while avoiding 
bottlenecks—a useful skill. But I also tried to quell the chaos by 
introducing formal project management and process, and in this I failed 
miserably. I could not demonstrate the usefulness of structure and 
strict planning for the short-focused, siloed projects that typify 
research, and I realized that any management practice that introduces a 
burden to research will stifle creativity and be met with hostility [..].

After moving to academia, I was surprised to find that the principal 
investigator (PI) has nearly unlimited authority. As in any monarchy, 
problems arise if the leader is not benevolent, experienced and well 
adjusted. Academia is full of horror stories of PIs hiding under their 
desks and refusing to come out, flying into rages if other researchers 
dare take public holidays or rebuking random individuals because they 
cannot find the person they really wish to yell at—these tales are all 
true [..].

[B]ut I have few regrets about moving 
back into academia. Looking back, I realize it took me a good two years 
to adjust and slip back into the academic way of doing things. Over that
 period, I grew a thicker skin to cope with the complex personalities 
and wayward attitudes I encounter in academia—today, any bizarre 
rudeness just amuses me. My job gives me the freedom to explore new 
ideas and the chance to score grants to fuel the research. I work with 
passionate and creative people, and the flexibility in my schedule 
allows me to see more of my children.

Of course, the largest 
benefit will always be the work itself—it has been all I wanted it to 
be. In one frantic month, I was tasked with mapping thousands of cancer 
genomes to look for common variants, investigating global health issues 
from five geographically distinct laboratories and analyzing five years 
of mass spectrometry experiments to look for disease-related biomarkers.
 I have been given the opportunity to try my hand at nearly anything, 
and I am able to reach out to experts to provide assistance. The 
challenges that academics face are enormous and the resources meager, 
but there is unbridled enthusiasm to explore the problems and a 
willingness to try different approaches. For me no other job (and I have
 had more than a few) has the same level of personal reward.












