# Week 24

Prior 2008 how did speculative bank credit creation went unnoticed?

Securitization and shadow banking

Where Does Money Come From? by Collins: "Prior to the financial
crisis, banks discovered a means to circumvent the Basel regulations
on capital adequacy. This new method allowed them to preserve their
capital adequacy and maintain liquidity whilst continuing to expand
credit creation and is known as ‘securitisation’. Securitisation is
the process of selling on a loan, or a package of loans, and passing
the risk and reward onto someone else in exchange for cash. By taking
loans off the bank’s balance sheet, it can create capacity for new
lending while staying within the required capital ratios [..]

The ‘shadow banking system’ is a loose term used to cover the
proliferation of financial activities undertaken by banks off their
balance sheets, largely beyond the reach of regulation. No solid
definition yet exists, but it conventionally includes non-depository
money market funds and the use of securitisation and credit
derivatives by many institutions as well as private repo transactions.

What all these have in common, aside from their extraordinary
expansion over the last decade, is the creation of forms of creditthat have no relationship to traditional banking. As discussed
previously, it is quite possible for banks to create money and credit
out of nothing. In a myriad of ways, the shadow banking system hugely
extends that principle. For example, securitised collateral, typically
in the form of loans repackaged to receive AAA grade ratings, could be
used in a repo transaction. The asset would be sold to another
institution, with an agreement to buy back at a later date, at a
higher price. The seller would, in effect, be ‘borrowing’ the money,
with the difference in price being equivalent to the interest
rate. Repo transactions have therefore been called another type of
privately created money and form a crucial part of the shadow banking
system.

By virtue of its nature, estimating the size of the shadow system can
be difficult, although it is now likely to be somewhat larger than
conventional banking. As of early 2007, Timothy Geithner, then
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York* suggested the US
shadow banking system had assets under management to the value of
$10.5 trillion – about $500 billion larger than the US deposit banking
system at the time."

So it's not like a representative from ACME Speculator I'll Burn Your
Money If You Give It To Me Co shows up at the bank and asks for
credit. The financial system found myriad of ways to print itself into
crisis.

---

Question

Why was shadow banking not regulated properly?

It was

Until it wasn't... From link - "Prior to the Great Depression in the
1930s, commercial banks were blamed for getting very speculative and
greedy, since they were not only investing their assets, but also
buying new issues for resale to the public. This led to a collapse of
the banking system, which slowly became irresponsible and chaotic. One
of the functional reforms that came in the form of banking regulations
was called the Glass-Steagall Act, and it clearly outlined the
objective of the banks".

---

Question 

What caused the Great Depression?

See above

Summary: speculative credit creation.

---

Question

What is the reason for recent crises'?

Guess what?

USA 1920s (Margin Loans): speculative credit creation

Scandinavia in the 1980s: speculative credit creation

Japan in the 1980s: speculative credit creation

Asian Crisis, 1990s: speculative credit creation

UK property bubble until 2007: speculative credit creation

US property bubble until 2006: speculative credit creation

Irish property bubble until 2007: speculative credit creation

Spanish property bubble until 2007: speculative credit creation

---

Wikipedia

Over time the amount of media merging has increased and the number of
media outlets has increased. As a result, fewer companies now own more
media outlets, increasing the concentration of ownership. In 1983, 90%
of US media was controlled by 50 companies; as of 2011, 90% was
controlled by just 6 companies and in 2017 the number was 5

---

Question

Does trade deficit effect a country's exchange rate?

It can

A persistent deficit has to be balanced somewhere. The entire balance,
balance of payments, has to be zero. CA + KA + FA + RES = 0, CA –
current account (which includes the trade balance), KA – capital
account, FA – financial account, RES – reserves.

This balance is actually a great way of looking at a country's
state. For example here is Greece (xls [sheet](Greece.xlsx) with
formulas, based on this
[lecture](http://coin.wne.uw.edu.pl/brokicki/wsp_images/oem___set_1.pdf)). See
balancing item is very small, near zero. I guess we can all see the
persistent negative value in the current account, a persistent trade
deficit, all the way until 2010's when crisis hit.

So the negatives, as in current account, needs to be balanced, that
can be through FDI, or bond purchases, stock market inflows, balancing
the demand on the local currency. Japanese person imports coconut oil,
pays back in Yen, foreigners take that Yen (they have to do something
with it and most likely in Japan), and invest it in the Japanese stock
market. But that can introduce build-up of skittish money, when things
go sour, this money can choose to leave in a hurry, selling the local
currency. In Greece's case money in/out flows were mostly on Euro, but
other countries can feel wild gyrations in their currency values. 

---

Question

Is trade deficit bad for US? 

Depends

Theoretically US can simply print dollars to close its deficit, $ is
the reserve currency, there is always demand for dollars, people can
hold them in reserve, use it for oil, etc., so debt can be financed
without inflationary side-effects... But excessive imbalances are
still not good. "Yeah but [Triffin
dilemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triffin_dilemma) says US has to
be in deficit so it can provide the world with reserve currency", what
ultimately follows though is having to defend that currency with
military. The problem here is that the Americans really are not too
comfortable with that kind of empire. All recent Presidents ran on
non-interventionism: Clinton, Bush, Bam. They lost their way becoming
captive to the establishment. We all saw the examples; they had
Clinton sign the Iraq Liberation Act, which Dubya would later use as
(another) justification for war (what are u yellin at me for, the law
says I have to liberate these funkers), Bam as we all saw effed it all
up in Libya, so they became interventionist, but at first campaigned
on non-interventionism. 

---

George Friedman

How does Germany exporting 50% of its GDP survive? 10% loss in exports
is a 5% loss in GDP.

Ouch

So over-reliance on exports is not good either.

BTW, Warren Buffett apparently had an
[idea](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/wp_538.pdf) / mechanism to
reduce trade deficits.

---

Book (The Great Rebalancing)

There have been after all many well-recorded financial crises in
history, dating at least from the Roman real estate crisis of AD 33,
which shared many if not most characteristics of the 2007 crisis. 

Funny

Yes, that crisis appears to be real-estate related causing a
credit-crunch, it caused some unrest in the empire. 

Here is something interesting: Jesus was killed by Romans somewhere
between AD 30-33, I wonder if these two events are connected. There'd
be unrest, the need to quell the unrest, the authority caused bunch of
mayhem and a poor carpenter dies .. Maybe that's the material
religions are made of.

---

Comment

There has been a disconnect between productivity and typical worker's
compensation since 70s

Interesting

I did not double check this graph. But it is likely that it is true.

---

Question

Did Supreme Court make the right call on the baker case?

Yes

The story was a baker refused to make a (custom) cake for same-sex
couple due to his religious beliefs. The case went to SC and baker
won.

That was a tricky one. But Scotus is right, this is not a case of
providing / not providing essential items, or providing employment (if
that were the case I guarantee the judgement would have been
different). This is abt creating art in many ways, so if forced it'd
be like the society telling the baker, on top of the discomfort he
feels about mores around him, "bitch dance for me". That would be
trampling on his freedom. He cannot be forced to joyfully to create
art.

US justice system, when it is not ruined by bought politicians, can
actually make some good calls. While in college I remember a few of my
friends studying law would share interesting cases they learned at
school. One had to do with a car accident - a driver crashes into
another car (that itself also made some funky moves) while driving
hastily. A radio station organized some sort of scavenger hunt, he was
trying to get somewhere fast to retrieve some item... Who's at fault?
Driver #1, or #2? The court found the radio station guilty - because
they organized the scavenger hunt creating a situation which caused
the driver #1 to drive carelessly and crash. So they considered the
psychology of the situation, how ppl can be effected by these things,
assigned certain amount of responsibility on the station which has a
public role when it comes to certain acts.. I thought it was a good
call.

---

Who came up with the Canadian single-payer healthcare? It was surely
the current prime minister's father Trudeau?

No

It was Tommy Douglas - who oddly enough ran
[against](https://youtu.be/g4_v2701GMg?t=1971) the father Trudeau and
lost because he did not provide enough "good TV". It was the 60s. I
remembered that tidbit when the son Trudeau disappointed
environmentalists lately by supporting fossil fuel production. Maybe
we should bar ppl who are "too presentable" from running for office?

---

Question

I don't want to work with Excel files, can you give me markdown and
csv files for Greece current account?

Sure

[Code](eu_greece.md), [Data](greece_acct.csv)

---

[Vox](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/12/21/16803302/drug-overdose-deaths-2016-worst)

The opioid crisis began in the 1990s, when doctors became increasingly
aware of the burdens of chronic pain. Pharmaceutical companies saw an
opportunity, and pushed doctors — with misleading marketing about the
safety and efficacy of the drugs — to prescribe opioids to treat all
sorts of pain.

Doctors, many exhausted by dealing with difficult-to-treat pain
patients, complied — in some states, writing enough prescriptions to
fill a bottle of pills for each resident. The drugs proliferated,
landing in the hands of not just patients but also teens rummaging
through their parents’ medicine cabinets, other family members,
friends of patients, and the black market.

Wait

So are they saying big pharma is complicit in creating this crisis?
They killed more ppl annually than the Vietnam War? Dude!

---

