# Week 16

If data science / AI / deep learning is about reverse-engineering
functions, can that help companies?

Yes

Functions abound in business. Let's take the issue of churn. "Certain
amount of my customers leave, stop engaging, why?" There is a function
there. Input is the activity, demographics of the customers, output is
whether they will churn. The dynamics of the company, product is such
that there is a process, a computation that pushes people out the
door. "Every customer older than 50 who are from region X, after doing
such and such leave with Y probability". We do not know this
computation. How do we discover it? You could employ social scientists
with math modeling skills to look at the data, come up with the model,
test it, tweak it, to find the function that computes when a customer
leaves,  once that is understood steps can be taken to contain the
damage.

Or we can simply feed the data (past customers who have churned) into
DL and watch it approximate that model - then for any customer we
could ask "the function" if customer will churn, if yes, maybe a
targeted campaign can be organized, users can be enticed to stay more
with the site, product, etc. 

A great DL model on churn BTW is here. The discussion on the vagueness
of churn was great.

---

News

YouTube was attacked by a video publisher woman

Odd

The woman was a nut job. Yes - gun control.

There is something odd going on with YouTube lately though, maybe this
is a bad time to bring it up, but there is a feeling out there there
is some kind of campaign to restrict certain video publishers. I
shared a video of this person before (a finance guy talking abt the
petrodollar) he complains all of a sudden he was marked in a negative
way.  Jimmy Dore complains all the time somehow his subscriptions are
being knocked out, they "magically" disappear (the viewers say they
subscribe then find out they are not), his ad revenue took a
plunge. YouTube might want to check if there is a "splinter cell" of
deep state lodged in there, fighting against non-establishment views.

---

Bernie Sanders

Israel overreacted ... Gaza is a disaster right now

So true

46. That's all I am saying.

---

[Jordan Peterson](https://youtu.be/aMcjxSThD54?t=1627)

The idea of hierarchy has nothing to do with socio-cultural
construction [then he goes on to say it is embedded in us, part of our
evolution]. 

Untrue

If that were true, hunter-gatherers, who are our ancestors and
themselves the result of billions of years of evolution, would be
hierarchical. But foragers were completely the opposite, they were
egalitarian. I can quote bunch of books here to prove this point but a
Wikipedia link should suffice: "The egalitarianism typical of human
hunters and gatherers is never total, but is striking when viewed in
an evolutionary context. One of humanity's two closest primate
relatives, chimpanzees, are anything but egalitarian, forming
themselves into hierarchies that are often dominated by an alpha
male. ".

We are not chimpanzees. Not lobsters either (Peterson also alludes to
that in the video above). 

Peterson does have some insight on other subjects, how ppl need to
take responsibility, how success on job depends not directly on
gender, how identity politics is not optimal for a person.. There is
some thoughtful analysis there and the man is not a total jackass. But
he doesn't have all the pieces. I'd pay attention to him on his area
of expertise - Peterson is a clinical psychologist, so here he has
lots to say. History, anthropology, not as much.

---

Question

Some conservatives like him

Yes

JP is being held-up as an intellectual conservative, but the main
problem here is what a lot of people think as conservatism is actually
village / farm centered goatfucking. Hierarchy, patriarchy, all kinds
of exploitation started during farming era. This little fact of course
is uncomfortable for a lot of these "conservatives", so they'd rather
look for the root of the issue somewhere else.

From the other direction, someone like David Graeber (from the left),
who did great work on the history of money and debt, can chose to
ignore the division between these two important ages of humanity. I
believe he subconsciously wants to blame hierarchy onto "exploitative
capitalism", exclusively. He wrote a big article about the
non-existence of the said division, I got a wind of it, the funny
story here is I  asked Ian Morris what he thought about the article,
who kindly responded, said Graeber was cherrypicking data. Then I told
Graeber to check his shit, and he lost it and flamed me. True story.

Anyway. Also, there is a huge industrial, second wave aspect to
hierarchy as well a la Toffler.  None of that seems to be making it
into the conversation. It's all about Russia, lobsters.

---

News

Democratic Party sues Russia, Trump campaign and WikiLeaks alleging
2016 campaign conspiracy

Ha Ha

When will they get to stage 5 of grief?.. The Russia angle makes
tactical sense of course - Trump wanted to partner with Russia, for
geopolitical reasons, completely logical, then Dems lose the election,
they turned that around and say of course he wants to partner because
was bought by Russians. That way you also cover up the fact that you
lost, badly,  Democrats tried to be Republicans for too long,
ideologically they became useless, defunct. The Russia segue covers
all that up, unifies the troops, provides a common enemy. 

---

News

WikiLeaks will call for a global blockade of Coinbase next week as an
unfit member of the crypto community. Coinbase, a large Californian
Bitcoin processor, responding to a concealed influence, has blocked
the entirely harmless @WikiLeaksShop in a decision approved by
management.

Coinbase, Not Cool

---

Question

What is the ideal company structure?

Gore Associates

Management is necessary to goad insufficiently competent (or let's say
misplaced) people. Or even sometimes manage an oddball client. So
management, process is there to manage an overabundence of suck. Pick
any management method, for software there is waterfall, agile, this is
the case. Here is an excerpt on agile methods: 

"Interestingly, this is also exactly how non-technical companies
(like, say, Chrysler) handled software development. Except they didn't
hire the engineers. Instead, they contracted with software
consultants, and they'd hand the consultants 2-year project specs, and
demanded the consultants finish everything on time plus all the crap
the customer threw in and/or changed after signing the contract. And
then it'd all fall apart and the contractors wouldn't get paid, and
everyone was really miffed.

So some of the consultants began to think: "Hey, if these companies
insist on acting like infants, then we should treat them like
infants!" And so they did. When a company said "we want features A
through Z", the consultants would get these big index cards and write
"A" on the first one, "B" on the second one, etc., along with time
estimates, and then post them on their wall. Then when the customer
wanted to add something, the consultant could point at the wall and
say: 'OK, boy. Which one of these cards do you want to replace, BOY?'
"

I'd say hire smart people, reduce bureaucracy, hell even HR, which
these days, constantly try to get you to "do stuff", the rest will
follow. Things need to be as natural, "naturally flowing" as
possible. Do not try to recreate an entertaining "village" with all
kinds of totems, where ppl pray to cat and dogs and shit, do a little
human sacrifice, "socialize". That stage was only a brief time in our
evolution. We have been the other thing before that, for much, much
longer.

---

If we give everyone free college education, that solves a big social
problem. It also locks in a price which is ten times too high for no
reason. This isn’t fair to the government, which has to pay ten times
more than it should. It’s not fair to the poor people, who have to
face the stigma of accepting handouts for something they could easily
have afforded themselves if it was at its proper price. And it’s not
fair to future generations if colleges take this opportunity to
increase the cost by twenty times, and then our children have to
subsidize that.

You are not locking in anything

I hear people making this mistake on universal healthcare too; Let's
say US currently is paying X%s of its GDP to healthcare. Then people
ask "but if gov pays that aren't we shifting the burden from one
column  to another? Is that fair?". That's not what's happening. With
universal healthcare the structure of the system will change; the
government as a insurer becomes a major buyer of drugs, a payer to
doctors. It can negotiate prices down to negligible amounts. It can
take steps to remove "regulatory complexity" (see article) so doctors
do not get sued unnecessarily. So that X% percent can go down to Y%
which the public will then pay..

Same with college; gov will give a certain amount of money to schools,
enough for educational needs, salaries, and the schools will make do
with that amount. That could mean schools not being able to invite
Milo Yiapowhateverfuckolous, or do other "interesting college culture
life events", well fine. Is that a big loss? The previous generation
had none of these things, and they turned out fine. Today, we can have
cheap computers + Internet! In my school (not a cheap school btw) we
had not-too-famous but locally known comedians perform, I bet there
was more socially relevant commentary there than whatever some
political firebrand might have said. 

(One comedian was this huge guy, he starts with  "hey man, when you
first saw me on stage did you think 'look at that big
mothe--k--er?.. Or did you think 'look at that fat
mothe--k--er?... [pauses a little] or did you think 'look at that big
fat mothe--k---er? [laughter]".  So we learned about weight issues in
America. Just kidding. But there was some astute observations).

---

Question

If AI can be useful for businesses can this service be offered as
consultancy? 

Yes

In fact Google is fast developing a consulting arm to do just
that. These guys will go in with bread-and-butter (for them obviously)
new deep neural net methods, and offer solutions for business
problems, code them, aaaand also provide the final platform to run
those programs  (Google Cloud). In fact consultancy is probably the
window dressing for the GC part. 

We hear the emphasis is using most recent methods, deep NN, deep RL,
for almost everything [geek] I heard one engineer talk about using
reinforcement learning even for industrial optimization problems, in
place of simplex and other methods [/geek]. 

---

Comment

Google is crazy on NNs

Yes

One of the reasons their partnership with Boston Dynamics fell apart
was probably G wanted BD to make its robots start from clean slate and
"learn" everything they need from data. BD does more straight-forward
science / engineering - they'd model all necessary movements one by
one, trial and error... So this comes back to functions /
reverse-engineering them from data using NN.

Both approaches are fine, but Google wants to rock'n roll, and pursue
that other road. 

---
