# Obama's District

2008, [The New Republic](https://newrepublic.com/article/42904/the-perfect-metaphor-obamas-ascent)

Like every other Democratic legislator who entered the inner sanctum,
Obama began working on his “ideal map.” Corrigan remembers two things
about the district that he and Obama drew. First, it retained Obama’s
Hyde Park base—he had managed to beat Rush in Hyde Park—then swooped
upward along the lakefront and toward downtown. By the end of the
final redistricting process, his new district bore little resemblance
to his old one. Rather than jutting far to the west, like a long thin
dagger, into a swath of poor black neighborhoods of bungalow homes,
Obama’s map now shot north, encompassing about half of the Loop, whose
southern portion was beginning to be transformed by developers like
Tony Rezko, and stretched far up Michigan Avenue and into the Gold
Coast, covering much of the city’s economic heart, its main retail
thoroughfares, and its finest museums, parks, skyscrapers, and
lakefront apartment buildings. African-Americans still were a
majority, and the map contained some of the poorest sections of
Chicago, but Obama’s new district was wealthier, whiter, more Jewish,
less blue-collar, and better educated. It also included one of the
highest concentrations of Republicans in Chicago.

“It was a radical change,” Corrigan said. The new district was a
natural fit for the candidate that Obama was in the process of
becoming. “He saw that when we were doing fund-raisers in the Rush
campaign his appeal to, quite frankly, young white professionals was
dramatic.”
