# Anatolia

[Halil Berktay](https://serbestiyet.com/serbestiyet-in-english/anatolia-1-59327/)

What does “Anadolu” mean? Where does it come from? Of course it is the
Turkish equivalent of the English “Anatolia.” But which led to which?
Or could both be translations of a third word in some other language?
Alternatively, is it possible or plausible that the Turkish word came
first? That, moreover, it was originally a combination of two other
Turkish words, *ana* for mother and *dolu* for full, so that
*ana+dolu* = *Anadolu* must mean “land of mothers” or “a land full of
mothers”?..

This interpretation is not very new. It goes back at least ninety
years and to a not very nice kind of precedent: the Kemalist Cultural
Revolution of the 1930s, and the unhealthy environment it created for
a state-ordained hyper-nationalism.

Not every revolution begets a cultural revolution. Upheaval in
politics, society, and the economy does not necessarily extend to
culture, and entail a total break with the past in that sphere. This
is much more difficult, and hence more ultra, than all other aspects
of revolutions...

In going from Empire to Republic, [Kemalism] tried to forge a new
modernist nation-state identity and affinity. Islam was not
wanted. The Ottoman past was not wanted. Ankara was to be counterposed
to Istanbul. The Society for Research on Turkish History (later the
TTK, the Turkish Historical Society) counterposed to the Committee on
Ottoman History... The Turks had to be associated with Europe and the
West through both racial and civilizational arguments. Last but not
least, Anatolia had to be shown to have belonged to “us” from time
immemorial. All of which implied creating a new past conforming to the
new present — hence a whole new theory of history...

It was all topped by the Sun Theory of Language and the Turkish Thesis
of History. According to the latter, once upon a time there had been a
very very ancient Turkish civilization in Central Asia — prior to 7000
BC. It was (baselessly) said to have been Turkish. It was also (and
equally baselessly) said to have been civilized — even more, the very
first civilization on Earth. Then, however, the climate changed, a new
desert-and-steppe environment made agriculture impossible, and
emigration began. Those who stayed behind reverted to nomadism. Those
who left spread all over the world, taking a superior race (?!), a
pure blood (?!), and a high civilization wherever they went. (When I
was small, there was a map of “The Turks’ Motherland and Routes of
Migration” that was never taken back to my primary school’s map room
but used to hang all the time to the front-right of the
blackboard. From a dark pink blob in Central Asia, thick red arrows
radiated in all directions...)

These Turkish movements starting c.7000 BC meant, among other things,
that “we” had entered Anatolia not after AD 1071 but much earlier,
like the 2nd millennium BC. Atatürk, indeed, had explicitly stated
that Turks could not be regarded as the real masters of this country
if it were to be admitted that they had arrived only in the 11th
century...  A solution (of sorts) was provided by the Hittites, who
were now said to have been Turkish, and who came to be re-named as the
Eti Turks. And of course the Sumerians in Mesopotamia, too, were
Turkish, since, together with the Hittite language, Sumerian was also
(totally baselessly) identified as a Turkic language...

<a name='unscientific'/>

Up to a point, we can understand (but not sympathize with) their
concerns. This legendary Central Asian civilization enabled them to
bypass both Islam and the Ottomans, while with the Hittites they
appeared to have made Anatolia “our own” at a time when there were no
Greeks around. But it was all junk, a pile of rubbish, devoid of any
scientific foundation whatsoever. Even worse was the rude intervention
of politics in history. The Great Leader’s personal orders resulted in
utter disregard for scientific methodology. The academic world’s need
and ability to evolve by its own internal rules and procedures was
crushed underfoot. What was encouraged and promoted was not genuine
scholarship but loyalty to the state. It had a corrosive,
debilitating, immoral, unethical impact.

And it was within this overall framework, and with a kind of crass
arrogance that can only result from a combination of ignorance with
untouchable power, that various amateur linguists who had made their
way into Atatürk’s close circle began to vie with one another in
proposing word-meanings intended to bolster the Turkish Thesis of
History. From that evening table [Kemal's drinking was legendary], the
famous sofra of Kemalist lore and legend, a virtual hysteria rose and
spread to the rest of the elite. Such spasms have marked many
hyper-nationalist dictatorial cultures. The time, too, was auspicious:
Fascism and Nazism were on the rise; Mussolini had already come to
power in 1922, and Hitler was about to do so in 1933. Trolls
flourished, and some unbelievable etymologies were concocted, all the
way to Ancient Greek gods and goddesses. Turks and Turkish seemed to
have been everywhere, naming everything, including South and North
America. Hence the Amazon came to be derived from amma+uzun (how long
it is)...

[In history] As Byzantium’s eastern defences collapsed, more and more
Turcoman tribes made their way through Azerbaycan to establish new
homelands.. for themselves in former Roman territory. It was not a
unified, centralized invasion but a much more diverse and fragmented
kind of wave under various tribal or semi-tribal war-leaders. Just who
among them might have had this ana+dolu brainwave? How, then, would he
have made it stick? By convening an assembly and getting everyone else
to agree? Would they have cared the slightest bit about such
nomenclature, such modern cognitive and classificatory problems? But
even if we hypothesize that they did, just where and when did it
happen? And where might we find it in our sources or primary
documents?...

So then, in linguistic terms where was Anadolu..?

It was always there (or here); it was a Greek word waiting for the
Turks to arrive. Long before Byzantium, it already existed in Ancient
Greece and under the Roman Empire. It didn’t have anything to do with
mothers; instead, it had everything to do with the east and the sun...

And so it is with Greek, where ἀνατέλλω (anatello) means “to rise up,”
so that ἀνατολή (anatolḗ) means the direction where the sun rises,
hence the east, and is used to designate (looking out from Greece)
eastern regions in general.

