# Farmers, Foragers, Fossils

Ian Morris

I am convinced, like the eighteenth-century philosophical historians,
that the sources of energy available to a society set the limits on
what kinds of values can flourish. Foragers living off wild plants and
animals find that only a rather narrow range of ways of organizing
their societies works out well, and these forms of organization tend
to reward particular kinds of values. Living off domesticated plants
and animals pushes farmers toward different organizations and values,
and people able to tap into the energy locked in fossil fuels find
that still another kind of organization and value system works best
for them...

Culture, religion, and moral philosophy certainly do shape the
regional versions of each of my three stages—no one would mistake,
say, Plato’s Apology for Confucius’s Analects... That said, though,
the bottom line is that while cultural traditions generate variations
on the central themes, energy capture is the motor driving the big
pattern...

[My] argument is .. universalist. .. my framework does incorporate the
overwhelming majority (probably more than 95 percent) of all the
people who have ever lived...

[My] argument is also explicitly evolutionist.. What I mean by this is
that human values have evolved biologically in the seven to eight
million years since we split off genetically from the last common
ancestor we shared with the other great apes. Because our biology has
not changed very much in the ten to fifteen thousand years since
farming began, anthropologists, psychologists, and historians find
that a few core concerns—treating people fairly, being just, love and
hate, preventing harm, agreeing that some things are sacred—recur all
over the world, regardless of time or place. To some extent, they
recur in our closest kin among the great apes, and perhaps among
dolphins and whales too. Up to a point, at least, human values are
genetically hardwired, and because of this, the biologist E. O.
Wilson observed forty years ago, “Scientists and humanists should
consider together the possibility that the time has come for ethics to
be removed temporarily from the hands of philosophers and
biologicized.”...

Foragers

<a name='hierarchy'/>

Everywhere from the Arctic to Australia, ethnographers have commented
on foragers’ aversion to political hierarchy. (In the excellent
Cambridge Encyclopedia 40 of Hunter-Gatherers, for instance, almost
all the contributors observe that the people about whom they are
writing have no institutionalized leaders.)...

Nonhierarchical values are just as pronounced in economics as in
politics, even if the nineteenth-century notion that foragers
practiced “primitive communism,” holding all goods in common, was
clearly mistaken. Rather, as Johnson and Earle emphasize in their
survey of social evolution, foragers “are closely attentive to matters
of possession and ownership. As a rule, every item produced has an
individual owner who decides how it is to be used.”

[N]o subgroup within a foraging society has ever set itself up as a
rentier class that owns the means of production. Excluding others from
access to wild plants that are scattered over a huge area or wild
animals and fish that are constantly on the move is normally
impossible... In almost all foraging societies, these practical
constraints on wealth accumulation are reinforced by a strong sense
that material hierarchy is morally wrong. In most societies, the value
of sharing is drummed into children early on... Refusing to share the
good things that come your way is a forager deadly sin, every bit as
bad as being an upstart. In fact, greed and upstartism seem to merge
in forager thought.. After all, if there is no way for a hunter who
makes a big kill to store the meat for his own or his immediate
family’s future use, why not share today’s abundance, in the hope that
someone who benefits from your generosity now will reciprocate in the
future?...

[F]orager bands are male-dominated, but rarely have steep gender
hierarchies. Abused wives regularly just walk away from their husbands
without much fuss or criticism, and attitudes toward marital fidelity
and premarital female virginity tend to be quite relaxed... 

The shallowness of gender hierarchies and the weakness of marital
ties, like the shallowness and weakness of economic and political
hierarchies, seem to be a direct consequence of the nature of foraging
as a method of energy extraction. The food that women gather is
vitally important, especially near the equator, where plants make up
such a large proportion of most foragers’ diets, but the ethos of
sharing normally means that all members of a group will have access to
this. The main reason that male foragers generally care less than male
farmers about controlling women—and particularly about controlling
women’s reproduction—is that foragers have much less to inherit than
farmers. For most foraging societies, wild foods are equally available
to all, regardless of who their parents are. Consequently, material
success depends much more on skill at hunting, gathering, and
coalition-building than on physical property that can be passed down
between generations, which in turn means that questions about the
legitimacy of children matter a lot less than they do when only
legitimate offspring will inherit land and capital.

Farmers

Like foraging, farming emerged in a particular place—in this case,
what archaeologists call the “Hilly Flanks” (.. basically, an arc
curving up through the Jordan Valley to the Turkish border and then
back down along the Iraq- Iran frontier)—at a particular time (roughly
ten thousand to fifteen thousand years ago), and then spread across
the rest of the planet...

Because all farming societies sooner or later invented or adopted
writing, beginning around 3300 BC in what is now southern Iraq, we
have enormous numbers of primary sources for farming societies.
However, of the millions of texts that survive, most share a serious
problem: their authors belonged to small, educated, and overwhelmingly
male elites, and usually wrote for their own peers and
purposes. Consequently, the primary historical sources tell us
surprisingly little about the lives of the three-quarters or more of
the population that actually did the farming...

Taking agriculture into new environments, however, opened new
possibilities, and farmers gradually learned that great
rivers—particularly the Euphrates, Tigris, Nile, Indus, and Yellow
Rivers—could be turned to the purposes of irrigation, transport, and
communication. This pushed yields and economic integration higher, and
it was along 64these rivers that farmers built the first true cities,
with populations running into the tens or occasionally the hundreds of
thousands. Yet if having access to a great river was good for farming,
having access to an entire sea was even better. In the late first
millennium BC, the Roman Empire brought the whole Mediterranean basin
under its control, and the city of Rome grew to a million residents...

The steady increase in energy captured per acre of farmland made it
possible to feed these millions of mouths, but it came at the price of
constant, backbreaking labor. The relatively leisured foragers of
Sahlins’s primitive affluent society make a striking contrast with the
brutally overworked farmers documented by historians, anthropologists,
and development economists. “Pile work with work upon more work,”
advised the ancient Greek poet Hesiod, whose Works and Days (composed
around 700 BC) is our oldest surviving source purporting to describe
life from a peasant’s point of view. Twenty-six centuries later, a
priest in southern Italy concluded that “the peasant works in order to
eat, he eats in order to have the strength to work; and then he
sleeps.” Excavated skeletons suggest that ancient farmers tended to
suffer more than foragers from repetitive stress injuries; their teeth
were often terrible, thanks to restricted diets heavy on sugary
carbohydrates; and their stature, which is a fairly good proxy for
overall nutrition, tended to fall slightly with the onset of
agriculture, not increasing noticeably until the twentieth century
AD...

[B]etween 1346 and 1400, the Black Death —which killed nearly half the
continent’s population—shifted the land-labor ratio back dramatically
in the survivors’ favor. Unskilled workers’ real wages spiked up to
unheard-of levels in the fifteenth century, but as population
recovered, farmers once again began having to work harder for lower
returns.. In eighteenth-century Europe, enlightened intellectuals
found that peasants looked back on the fifteenth century as a golden
age of leisure, cakes, and ale, in sharp contrast to the misery of
their own days...

Inequality

[On inequality] The earliest case for which we have actual statistics
is the Roman Empire, and here some people were astonishingly
rich... [A] senior military man named L. Tarius Rufus lost 100 million
sesterces when a single property deal went wrong, and the historian
Chris Wickham suggests that by the fourth century AD, the greatest
families—the Anicii, Petronii, and Caeonii—“may have been the richest
private landowners of all time.”...

Because (1) the foods produced by farmers often required more
processing (threshing, sifting, grinding, baking, and so on) than
those brought home by foragers; (2) the increasingly permanent homes
that farmers built required a lot more upkeep and cleaning than
foragers’ temporary shelters; and (3) these activities could be done
in the home by women supervising small children, the logic of farming
pointed toward a new sexual division of labor and space. The
conclusion that farmers all over the world apparently reached was that
men should go out to work in the fields while women stayed home to
work in the house. So obvious did this decision seem, in fact, that no
farming society that moved beyond horticulture ever seems to have
decided anything else...

In twentieth-century preindustrial farming societies, anthropologists
and sociologists typically found strong correlations between the
intensity of agricultural practices, the importance of inheritance,
and male obsession with female sexual purity. This too seems to be a
consequence of the logic of agriculture. Foragers share their
knowledge with the young, teaching them how to find ripe plants, wild
game, and safe campsites, but farmers have something much more
concrete to pass on: property.  To flourish in a farming world, people
need a house, fields, and flocks, not to mention wells, walls, and
tools, and improvements such as weeding, watering, terracing, and
removing stones. Inheriting property from older generations literally
becomes a matter of life and death, and with so much at stake, peasant
men want to be sure that they are the fathers of the children who will
inherit their property. Foragers’ rather casual attitudes about sex
yield to ferocious policing of daughters’ premarital virginity (the
“symbol of symbols,” one anthropologist of southern Italy called it in
the 1950s) and wives’ extramarital activities. Peasant men tended to
marry around the age of thirty, after they had come into their
inheritance, while women generally married around fifteen, before they
had had much time to stray...

Patriarchal values made sense in societies that captured energy
through farming.  Male power over women increased after the
agricultural revolution not because male farmers were more brutish
than male hunters, but because this was the most efficient way to
organize labor in peasant societies. In a world of constant
competition over scarce resources, over the course of several thousand
years the most efficient societies replaced less efficient ones, and
because patriarchy proved so successful, men and women alike accepted
patriarchal values as just. If either of these conditions had not
applied, the historical and anthropological records would contain at
least some examples of farming societies organized along different
lines and expressing different values...

Worship

Many early farming societies seem to have been obsessed with
ancestors, and even to have worshipped them as supernatural beings.
Several sites in the Hilly Flanks have apparent ancestor cults
(strange semisubterranean rooms containing jawless human skulls) going
back to 10,000 BC, just as domestication was beginning. By 7000 BC,
people at Jericho, Çatalhöyük, and numerous other sites were burying
their ancestors under their house floors while cutting off and keeping
their heads, often coating the skulls with painted plaster and passing
them around for generations. By this time, girls in the Hilly Flanks
probably no longer lived like the !Kung forager Nisa. Instead, they
grew up under the authority of their fathers and then, as teenagers,
exchanged that for the authority of husbands old enough to be their
fathers...

Slavery

[M]ost material goods, in most farming societies, were produced within
the household. The ancient Greek farmer-poet Hesiod assumed that
farmers would make everything they possibly could at home, rather than
buying, bartering, or borrowing outside the household... Despite his
commitment to self-sufficiency, however, .. no farm family could do
everything for itself, increasing specialization [occured] between
households... [some] would specialize in particular crafts, exchanging
goods in marketplaces and competing with each other..

Forced labor was almost unknown within foraging societies. .. unlike
the slaves in many of the more developed farming societies, who
remained permanent, subjugated outsiders. Farming societies seem to
have shifted toward forced labor because they had to: neither kinship
nor the market could generate the labor needed to build the ships,
harbors, roads, temples, and monuments without which their
(relatively) huge populations could not have fed themselves or
maintained their societies. In a classic paper published in 1959, the
ancient historian Moses Finley asked “Was Greek civilization based on
slave labor?” The answer, he concluded, was yes, and, if we broaden
the question to include forced labor of all kinds, Finley’s answer
applies (to varying degrees) to all farming societies. In extreme
cases, of which classical Athens was one, as many as one person in
three was a chattel slave, and few if any farming societies did
without slavery or serfdom altogether. Forced labor, like patriarchy,
was functionally necessary to farming societies..

The Old Deal

<a name='olddeal'/>

[The] image of the king as his people’s shepherd, dealing directly
with the divine sphere on their behalf and protecting them from
predators, became a staple of political philosophy in most agrarian
societies [author calls this the Old Deal]. All over the world,
political hierarchy tended to rest on the idea that the men (or, very
occasionally, women) at the top were to some degree godlike.. The Old
Deal was at heart a circular argument, tying political and economic
inequality together and justifying both. Virtue and power followed
each other: because the gods loved the rulers, the rulers were rich,
and the fact that the rulers were rich showed that the gods loved
them...

When protests and threats failed to change elite behavior, farmers
sometimes took direct action, but when they did do this, they
regularly insisted that they were attacking only the local authorities
rather than the ultimate authority, be he king, emperor, or pope. The
distant ruler, they asserted, remained virtuous, but his underlings
were betraying him (“The tsar is good, but the boyars are bad,” went a
Russian saying).  By attacking these wicked minions, the logic of
peasant resistance said, rebels were actually helping the king
maintain the Old Deal...

Socrates, the Buddha, Zoroaster, and Jesus [called Axial thinkers]
.. seem to have agreed on the general point of the exercise: that
people needed to transcend the squalor, corruption, and impermanence
of our own sullied world to attain a state of purity and goodness that
lies beyond it.  One key factor behind this claim seems to have been a
general loss of confidence in older visions in which the great chain
of being, culminating in a godlike king, was enough to anchor the
moral order.

From China to Greece, Axial theorists generally felt that the
transcendent realm beyond this world—the Buddhist nirvana (literally
“blowing out,” a state of mind in which the passions of this world are
snuffed out like a candle), the Confucian ren (often translated
“humaneness”), the Platonic to kalon (“the good”), the Christian
Kingdom of Heaven, and the Daoist “Way”—was ultimately indefinable,
but despite their vagueness about where they were going, they showed
remarkable agreement on how to get there. Neither godlike kings nor
the priests who worked for them, the new critics argued, could anchor
the moral order by providing transcendence. That depended on
self-fashioning, an internal, personal reorientation toward
goodness. Each Axial tradition had its own recommended way to achieve
this (meditation for Buddhists, conversation for Socratics, study for
Jews, a combination of study and punctilious observation of ritual for
Confucians), but all these techniques—and others —worked to guide
followers toward the same ends: living ethically.. 

Much in Axial thought was radical and countercultural, threatening
.. status quo. Axial thinkers (and their first-millennium AD heirs)
tended to be men from the lower reaches of the elite (Socrates,
Confucius, Muhammad, and most of the Hebrew Prophets fit this bill),
or even from outside it (such as Jesus). They also hailed from the
geographical margins of the great empires—places like Confucius’s home
state of Lu, the Buddha’s of Sakya, or peripheries such as Israel,
Greece, and Arabia— rather than from great, powerful states such as
Wei and Zhao in China, Magadha in India, or Assyria, Persia, and
Egypt. At least some of them cast doubt on the need for the poor to
defer to the rich, the humble to the wellborn, and even women to men.
Daoists and Buddhists tended to ignore political hierarchy; Confucius,
Socrates, and Jesus upbraided rulers for their ethical shortcomings;
and the Hebrew Prophets positively abused their kings. Agrarian elites
regularly returned the compliment, persecuting, exiling, or executing
Axial thinkers, but overall, all the great ancient empires eventually
coopted the critics, taming the wilder fringes of Axial thought and
bringing its bright young men into the establishment...

The Han dynasty that united China in 206 BC [was succesful] at turning
Axial critiques into a state ideology, rewarding with wealth and
influence those Confucians who emphasized texts that stressed duty and
submission to authority rather than those that pointed toward
independence and critique... The greatest success story of all,
though, was surely the Roman Empire. Greek philosophy caused constant
conflict within the Roman ruling class in the second century BC, but
over the next hundred years or so the state turned Stoicism into the
same kind of ideology of public service as Confucianism. No sooner was
this accomplished, though, than Christianity emerged as a much more
powerful critique— only for Rome to tame it too...

The Old Deal proved to be remarkably resilient. Despite constant
criticism of inequality in Buddhist, Confucian, and Christian texts,
post-Axial political and economic hierarchy was just as robust as the
pre-Axial version (in the fourteenth century AD, one pope even tried
to ban Christians from saying that Jesus had been poor)...

There were no feminists in Agraria, and precious few communists or
anarchists either. Rather, most people recognized that hierarchy, and
its endless degrees of rank, was the moral foundation of the good
life... Thomas Hobbes [then wrote.. ] one of the most important
arguments ever made in political philosophy [during agrarian age]:
that the only way to prevent the war of all against all is to enshrine
degree so firmly that it brings forth a Leviathan, a government
powerful enough to intimidate its unruly subjects into living
peacefully... Farming could only work if rates of violent death fell.






