# Know-How and Why

Science education needs to focus on the process, on mathematical
modeling, on how to obtain results, instead of simply results
themselves. There is some improvement in this regard, but the old
approach and culture still persists. Even the greats of teaching were
not immune to this problem; The Feynman Lectures on Physics is mostly
about results rather than the process used to obtain those
results. The real gold is in the process, the results can change. In
Genius we read at a young age Feynman reached a point when he could
model pretty much anything he wanted, he'd run around asking people
for problems to model, and finally found one;

"No one had ever analyzed the behavior of light passing through a
parade of mostly transparent films thinner than a single wavelength
[..] A few days later Feynman returned with the solution: a formula
summing an infinite series of reflections back and forth from the
inner surfaces of the coatings. He showed how the combinations of
refraction and reflection would affect the phase of the light,
changing its color. Using Feynmanâ€™s theory and many hours on the
Marchant calculator, Cutler also found a way to make the color filters
his professors wanted. Developing a theory for reflection by
multiple-layer thin films was not so different for Feynman from math
team in the now distant past of Far Rockaway [his childhood home]. He
could see, or feel, the intertwined infinities of the problem, the
beam of light resonating back and forth between the pair of surfaces,
and then the next pair, and so on, and he had a giant mental kit bag
of formulas to try out."

Representing functions are sums of infinite series is a deeply
theoretical subject whose research was inspired by physics, beautiful
mathematics. Tranmission of such "mental kit of formulas [or
equalities, inequalities, theories, representations, etc]" should be
the goal of education, not simply dropping a finished product /
formula F = ma in a kid's lap, and have him / her solve mechanical
problems one after another.
