# Is Earth F**ked?

[Link](https://theconversation.com/creative-self-destruction-and-the-climate-48303)

In December 2012, a pink-haired complex systems researcher named Brad
Werner made his way through the throng of 24,000 earth and space
scientists at the Fall Meeting of the American Geophysical Union, held
annually in San Francisco [.. I]t was Werner’s own session that was
attracting much of the buzz. It was titled “Is Earth F--ked?” (full
title: “Is Earth F--ked? Dynamical Futility of Global Environmental
Management and Possibilities for Sustainability via Direct Action
Activism”).

Standing at the front of the conference room, the geophysicist from
the University of California, San Diego walked the crowd through the
advanced computer model he was using to answer that question. He
talked about system boundaries, perturbations, dissipation,
attractors, bifurcations and a whole bunch of other stuff largely
incomprehensible to those of us uninitiated in complex systems theory
[..] When pressed by a journalist for a clear answer on the “are we
f--ked” question, Werner set the jargon aside and replied, “More or
less.”

The essential problem, Werner argued, is that there is a mismatch
between the short time-scales of markets, and the political systems
tied to them, and the much longer time-scales that the Earth system
needs to accommodate human activity, including soaking up our carbon
dioxide and other wastes.

Technological progress and globalization of finance, transport and
communications have oiled the wheels of the human components of the
planetary system allowing it to speed up. But the pace of the natural
system carries on as it always has. The problem is not Stern’s market
failure but market success.

Brad Werner’s conclusion is that the Earth is indeed f--ked, unless
somehow the market system can be prevented from working so well. What
we urgently need is friction; sand must be thrown into the machine to
slow it down. Only resistance to the dominant culture will give some
hope of avoiding collapse.

[Video](https://youtu.be/BpwkP6uDikM?t=1489)

