# Money Laundering 101

Rickards, The Death of Money

A favorite method [for money laundering in China] is to establish a
relationship with a corrupt casino operator in Macao, where a
high-rolling Chinese gambler can open a line of credit backed by his
bank account. The gambler then proceeds deliberately to lose an
enormous amount of money in a glamorous game such as baccarat played
in an ostentatious VIP room. The gambling debt is promptly paid by
debiting the gambler’s bank account in China. This transfer is not
counted against the annual ceiling on capital exports because it is
viewed as payment of a legitimate debt. The “unlucky” gambler later
recovers the cash from the corrupt casino operator, minus a commission
for the money-laundering service rendered.

Even larger amounts are moved offshore through the mis-invoicing of
exports and imports. For example, a Chinese furniture manufacturer can
create a shell distribution company in a tax haven jurisdiction such
as Panama. Assuming the normal export price of each piece of furniture
is $200, the Chinese manufacturer can underinvoice the Panamanian
company and charge only $100 for each piece. The Panamanian company
can then resell into normal distribution channels for the usual price
of $200 per piece. The $100 “profit” per piece resulting from the
underinvoicing is then left to accumulate in Panama. With millions of
furniture items shipped, the accumulated phony profit in Panama can
reach into the hundreds of millions of dollars. This is money that
would have ended up in China but for the invoicing scheme.











