# Element One

[News](https://www.thestar.com.my/tech/tech-news/2018/10/04/worlds-first-hydrogen-electric-passenger-plane-to-take-off-in-2025/)

"The world's first regional passenger plane powered by
hydrogen-electric power is set to take to the skies as early as 2025,
paving the way for a new generation of zero-emissions air travel. 
Designed to fly up to four passengers for distances between 500km to
5,000km, the Element One is described as a quiet, ultra-light, zero
carbon aircraft "several orders of magnitude better" than
battery-electric aircrafts".

I love the name. Probably comes from the fact that H is the first
element in the periodic table. Hydrogen on an aircraft is actually not
that far-fetched. NASA [used it](https://www.nasa.gov/content/space-applications-of-hydrogen-and-fuel-cells)
as a rocket fuel for decades.

[Link](https://www.now-gmbh.de/en/news/press/germanys-50th-hydrogen-refuelling-station-opened-in-potsdam)

"At the commissioning of the 50th public refuelling station [in
Potsdam Germany] H2 MOBLITY partners Linde and TOTAL celebrated [the
event]".

"Tesla Supercharging stations [..] take about 20 minutes to charge to
50%, 40 minutes to charge to 80%, and 75 minutes to 100%" Too
slow. Hyundai Nexo, or Toyota Mirai, or Nikola will refuel under 5
minutes.

[News](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMxUfBGvJvM)

"No one has test-driven a hydrogen car for as long a distance as we
have. From the South Korean capital city of Seoul to southeastern port
city of Ulsan, we drove Hyundai Motors' Nexo for over 400 kilometers
on a single charge".

Looks like a comfortable ride.

[Jeremy Clarkson](https://www.alphr.com/cars/1002996/jeremy-clarkson-thinks-hydrogen-fuel-is-the-future-of-cars)

"I'm baffled by the car industry's apparent reluctance to think more
seriously about hydrogen as a replacement for petrol and diesel, H is
the most abundant element in the universe, so we wouldn't run out of
it for about a billion years, and it's clean too. A car powered by
[HFC] produces nothing from its tailpipe but water [..] The motor
industry would stop fiddling about with its pointless batteries and
its hybrid-drive systems and get on the only road where there is
actually a future for personal mobility. The hydrogen road"

Clarkson was the host of the popular car show Top Gear. 
