# Globaloney

The Economist [article](http://www.economist.com/node/18584204?story_id=18584204)

GEOFFREY CROWTHER, editor of The Economist from 1938 to 1956, used to
advise young journalists to “simplify, then exaggerate”. He might have
changed his advice if he had lived to witness the current debate on
globalisation. There is a lively discussion about whether it is good
or bad. But everybody seems to agree that globalisation is a fait
accompli: that the world is flat, if you are a (Tom) Friedmanite, or
that the world is run by a handful of global corporations, if you are
a (Naomi) Kleinian.

Pankaj Ghemawat of IESE Business School in Spain is one of the few who
has kept his head on the subject. For more than a decade he has
subjected the simplifiers and exaggerators to a barrage of
statistics. He has now set out his case—that we live in an era of
semi-globalisation at most—in a single volume, “World 3.0”, that
should be read by anyone who wants to understand the most important
economic development of our time.

Mr Ghemawat points out that many indicators of global integration are
surprisingly low. Only 2% of students are at universities outside
their home countries; and only 3% of people live outside their country
of birth. Only 7% of rice is traded across borders. Only 7% of
directors of S&P 500 companies are foreigners—and, according to a
study a few years ago, less than 1% of all American companies have any
foreign operations. Exports are equivalent to only 20% of global
GDP. Some of the most vital arteries of globalisation are badly
clogged: air travel is restricted by bilateral treaties and ocean
shipping is dominated by cartels.

Far from “ripping through people’s lives”, as Arundhati Roy, an Indian
writer, claims, globalisation is shaped by familiar things, such as
distance and cultural ties. Mr Ghemawat argues that two otherwise
identical countries will engage in 42% more trade if they share a
common language than if they do not, 47% more if both belong to a
trading block, 114% more if they have a common currency and 188% more
if they have a common colonial past [..].

That FDI fell from nearly 2 trillion dollar in 2007 to 1 trillion
dollar in 2009 can be put down to the global financial crisis. But
other trends suggest that globalisation is reversible. Nearly a
quarter of North American and European companies shortened their
supply chains in 2008 (the effect of Japan’s disaster on its
partsmakers will surely prompt further shortening). It takes three
times as long to process a lorry-load of goods crossing the
Canadian-American border as it did before September 11th 2001. Even
the internet is succumbing to this pattern of regionalisation [..]

Mr Ghemawat also explodes the myth that the world is being taken over
by a handful of giant companies [..] He also refutes the idea that
globalisation means homogenisation. The increasing uniformity of
cities’ skylines worldwide masks growing choice within them, to which
even the most global of companies must adjust. McDonald’s serves
vegetarian burgers in India and spicy ones in Mexico, where Coca-Cola
uses cane sugar rather than the corn syrup it uses in America.

Mr Ghemawat notes that company bosses lead the pack when it comes to
overestimating the extent of globalisation. Nokia, for example, spent
years trying to break into Japan’s big but idiosyncratic
mobile-handset market with its rest-of-the-world-beating products
before finally conceding defeat [..]

This sober view of globalisation deserves a wide audience. But whether
it will get it is another matter. This is partly because “World 3.0”
is a much less exciting title than “The World is Flat” or “Jihad
vs. McWorld”. And it is partly because people seem to have a natural
tendency to overestimate the distance-destroying quality of
technology. Go back to the era of dictators and world wars and you can
find exactly the same addiction to globaloney. Henry Ford said cars
and planes were “binding the world together”. Martin Heidegger said
that “everything is equally far and equally near”. George Orwell got
so annoyed by all this that he wrote a blistering attack on all the
fashionable talk about the abolition of distance and the disappearance
of frontiers—and that was in 1944, when Adolf Hitler was advancing his
own unique approach to the flattening of the world.
