# Blink

Malcolm Gladwell

The psychologists Claude Steele and Joshua Aronson created an even
more extreme version of this test, using black college students and
twenty questions taken from the Graduate Record Examination, the
standardized test used for entry into graduate school. When the
students were asked to identify their race on a pretest questionnaire,
that simple act was sufficient to prime them with all the negative
stereotypes associated with African Americans and academic achievement
— and the number of items they got right was cut in half. As a
society, we place enormous faith in tests because we think that they
are a reliable indicator of the test taker’s ability and
knowledge. But are they really? If a white student from a prestigious
private high school gets a higher SAT score than a black student from
an inner-city school, is it because she’s truly a better student, or
is it because to be white and to attend a prestigious high school is
to be constantly primed with the idea of “smart”?..

Aronson and Steele found the same thing with the black students who
did so poorly after they were reminded of their race. “I talked to the
black students afterward, and I asked them, ‘Did anything lower your
performance?’ ” Aronson said. “I would ask, ‘Did it bug you that I
asked you to indicate your race?’ Because it clearly had a huge effect
on their performance. And they would always say no and something like
‘You know, I just don’t think I’m smart enough to be here.’ ”

