# Turkist Narrative, Culture

People have an Asia Minor do have a culture, but they name that
culture incorrectly. The migrants who arrived in Anatolia melted away,
assimilated into, and became part of the larger culture they arrived
in. Their effect was minimal, proportional to their size [1]. Current
narrative has them arriving, finding the place empty [4], and
remaining as they were for a thousand years, bringing "civilization"
to Anatolia.

I estimate the arrival of new ppl starting from 600s and continuing
for a few centuries seems to be around 1 million arriving into a
population of 8 million.

Genetic research proves [2] biologically only 9% of genetic structure
(95% CI 7-11) of today's Anatolia is of Asiatic origin. Culture effects
are always proportional with size, 90% of the culture of today's culture
in non-Turkic.

A new label is needed, one is not as retarded and full of misinformation
as the one in use now.

### Similarities

Food

Organized agriculture was invented in Anatolia and its nearby regions,
over 10,000 years ago ("Turk" migration is little over 1000 yrs
old). So it should be no surprise inventions around food, tasty
recipes, preservation methods were first invented there, not by nomads.

<a name='yogurt'/>

Yogurt was invented in the Mediterrenian region, Herodotus talks about
it in the 5th century B.C. 

The Turkish coffee is a Yemenese invention. I'm talking about using
coffee beans ground into a fine powder, then boiled in a little [brass pot](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FB9mjc0XMAU_YNS?format=jpg&name=small).
This product is called different names by countries, with many laying
claim on its discovery. But since the first-use was in Yemen, it should
be called Yemenese coffee.

Asia Minor *tarhana* soup is actually one of the oldest foods in the
Eastern Mediterranean called in Greek *trahana*, it was traditionally
made in August as an ingenious method of preserving milk for the cold
winter months by combining the dairy with the wheat and leaving in the
hot summer sun to dry over a few days.

*Döner* (meaning 'it turns') is similar to Greek *gyro*, Arabic
*shawarma*, or Armenian *tarna* (which literally means *to turn*)
are all variations of the same idea that were served all over the place in
Eastern Europe and Middle East, for thousands of years.

<a name='music'/>

Music

Below is Byzantine music which sounds awefully similar to "Turkish art
music", *sanat müziği*.

[Song 1](https://youtu.be/Da9FeNoFIm0),
[Song 2](https://youtu.be/kOhCB4RUc8U),
[Song 3](https://youtu.be/9_8aSrsTlCE),
[Song 4](https://youtu.be/lR4E7XrS9gI),
[Song 5](https://youtu.be/JSHiM36GmkY),
[Song 6](https://youtu.be/k_srWY7hddw)

### Why the Subterfuge

The reasons are many.

- The collapse of the empire required an identity-rethink: the
collapse was blamed on back-stabbing neighbors, and the ancient
locals. The unblemished migrant (who was ignored, taken advantage of
by others) had to be brought to the fore, in order to create a new
republic.

- The last dominant sultan led a pan-Islam policy, the officers who
rose up against him and later founding the Republic wanted to rock'n
roll, they made the pure, unblemished migrant also a non-Islamic,
shamanistic person. They would achive secularism indirectly, now
the Turk had something he was connected to before Islam, and
the narrative had the double side effect of ignoring the religion
of the region, especially of the "backstabbers".

- Turk always meant Muslim in the Balkans, for recent migrants from
Balkans who were Muslim this identity wasn't too off-putting (but per
above founders pushed Islam in the background, creating a
contradiction)

- The identity worked best for migrants who had arrived recently,
Circassians, Tatars, and others - the narrative said Turks "just
arrived" into these new lands and remained unchanged in the case of
Tatars the identity worked even better - they looked Asiatic. However
as the "scratch a Tatar you get a Russian" comment suggests the newly
arrivals weren't exactly Turkic, then they assimilated into Anatolia
which wasn't Turkic either. Their story became another tragic example
of labeling gone wrong.

- Ever-present Russian danger necessitated strong allies. Britain was
such an ally. Britain always fought against Russia in The Great Game,
they wanted a bulwark against them. The "Turk" who is unblemished
therefore still connected to Asia who could stir up trouble there
among other Turkic nations causing trouble for Russia was a God-sent
for Brits. In this narrative the nomadic Turk who is foreign to this
"new land" could be the perfect frontier infantry, always ready to
attack Russia or whoever causes trouble for him (creating additional
animonsities which could be exploited such as in Cyprus) with the
chaos potential reaching all the way into Central Asia, Caucuses, and
even Xinjang.

- Old neighbors becoming enemies reinforced the narrative. As any good
Ponzi schemes the Turkist nationalist narrative allowed a way in for
everyone, bizarrely constructed as it was, if one said you were it,
you could become it. But the story, rationalization of the identity
had gone so beyond sanity, most of the notable "other" natives found
it absurd, and would never accept it. Hence they were demonized, Kurds
were labeled as being "mountain Turks" who just did not know what they
truly were, since they were this stupid they could be jailed or
killed. Attacks toward other "non-Turks" also increased. Opression led
to rebellion, which caused Kurds to see themselves more and more
distinct. Now, sadly, even some Kurds want Turks to be Turks - because
it reinforces their seperatist wishes, them being a seperate Kurd.

- Same dynamic worked with Greeks - surely a people of Christian
denomination, but in cultural matters, especially in Anatolia, that
matters little. However the War of Independence caused the two people
to demonize eachother, now they also need the other to be what they
are so they can tell themselves fairy tales about hordes coming in
from wherever causing terror in the lands therefore one must be
on guard to protect the Greek nation at all times.

<a name='islamoturkist'/>

- After the 80 fascist coup the narrative was expanded to include
Islam. But the Islamoturkist Synthesis was also strategically crafted
to fit the needs of the US, Brits and the outer alliance in
general. In the 80s Islamist Mujaheddin was fighting in Afghanistan
against the Godless Soviets, religion was needed now, it was back en
vogue in Pakistan, and neighboring countries as well. But The
Synthesis increased the internal inconsistencies of the Turkist
narrative even further. What Founder Kemal ignored was back, according
to earlier story the Turk was a shaman, now a bizarre combo was being
offered. Expansionist Ottomans were now a-ok along with its Khalif, in
opposition to non-expansionist secular Republic. The reception of the
synthesis was lukewarm, older city Anatolians brought up by the old
system continued to believe in it, new ones pushed and pulled it into
bizarre new directions, making it into everything, which implied
previously already defective narrative now also meant nothing.

<a name='antiislamo'/>

- The 80s coup leaders, while creating an Islamoturkist Synthesis,
also "activated" the Turkist, Kemalist crowd alerting them to be "on
guard" against the other elements of the Synthesis who might misbehave
and do things secular folk might not like.. This act ushered in
decades of internal conflict in an Anatolian version of US culture
war, ignore the economic issues, just fight over hijab, "women's
rights". Well-to-do Turkist Kemalist would fight to force women to
take off their hijab, whereas conservative from usually poorer
background tried to "defend their identity" by refusing.. The Turkist
resurgence used the image of Kemal as its mascot [5].

<a name='problems'/>

### Problems

Turkist narrative suffers from multitude of problems.

- Due to the many changes it experienced the identity suffers from
lack of accuracy. The nomads, the real Turks who arrived from Central
Asia adopted to their new homeland, taking up Islam was one of those
transitions. Many others in Anatolia did the same, and later when 20th
century wanted to label someone as Turk they simply referred to all
Muslims as such. Therefore the set of Muslims labeled as Turks were
always larger than the set of ethnic "true" Turks. From [post](../../2021/07/lycian-history.html)

>[F]ollowing the Turkish War of Independence in which Greece (The
>Ottoman Empire had lost Greece as part of its territory by this time)
>invaded Turkey in hope of a Greater Greece but was repelled, the 1923
>Treaty of Lausanne was drawn up in the peace settlement.  This is a
>very sad part of history as both Greece and Turkey agreed to a mutual
>exchange of populations, irrespective of those populations’ wishes.
>Greece expelled approximately 600,000... while the Turks expelled
>about 750,000 Anatolian[s]... (some were allowed to stay in Istanbul).
>These figures differ, depending on the source. In deciding ethnicity,
>the criterion used was religion.  A Turkish-speaking Orthodox
>Christian in Turkey was thus considered Greek, and expelled to Greece,
>while a Greek-speaking Muslim who knew no Turkish was considered
>Turkish and expelled to Turkey

- But the founders wanted to "de-Islamize" the term as well, so
Muslims who became Turks, who mostly were not Turks, had to
de-Islamize (and later re-Islamize -post 80s-). Confused yet?

- As the Turkist ideology cannot be maintained logically, founders had
to appeal to 10,000 years of Anatolian custom around ancestor
worshipping (a problem in every agrarian society). Kemal took up to
the task with fervor, placing himself at the center of that worship
(notice the name he took for himself, The Grand Ancestor of
Turks). Sadly in a modern, industrial world such an ask is near
impossible to achieve, save for a small group of devout worshippers
[5] which turns the founder into a niche figure, not someone that
should unify all, as George Washington or Jefferson might have done
for Americans.

- Since The Identity's function is in serious doubt, many chose to
ignore it, but its past lingers on in its symbols and worse, in
people's names. All TR lastnames were taken in a 30s law, and the
common folk, seeing the propaganda associated with the Turkification
(also seeing what happened to Armenians who fell outside it during the
so-called (!) purge) went out of their way to take up solid Turkified
names to come across as good citizens in the eye of the state. Many
were also *assigned* such acceptable names by the government official
himself visiting their towns that day. These names all follow a
pattern, made up of a few base words with usually martial, sometimes
racist themes, such as er (soldier), öz (essence, root, with racist
overtones), or simply Turk. There are Ozturk, Turker, Erturk, etc. The
names, since they refer to an incorrect, inconsistent take of the
past, are now a sad reminder of a corrupted nationalization process.

- The word Turk meant different things to different people. In the
Balkans (where most of the founders came from) it simply meant
Muslim. In Anatolia it was actually considered an ethnic slur. A story
can demonstrate this well - during the last days of the empire as the
new nationalism was circulating among the cadres, one officer wanted
to check how much the regular soldiers knew of "their identity". He
first asked them about the sultan, the Caliph, etc. The soldiers
weren't really sure, many were confused, they thought sultan was
prophet, Caliph was God, etc.  After a few tries frustrated, the
officer finally said "but aren't we all Turks!??". To that all
soldiers responded, in unison, with the word *estağfurullah*. This
word is a mix of "c'mon that cannot be!" and "do not sell yourself
short", indicating people though the officer had used a slur on
himself.

Even a century later the legacy of such unfavorable meaning
remains. I've seen well-educated people, proud citizens who loved
their country, best and brightest of their generation, working for top
corporations and still using the word in non-favorable terms. One time
such a group called their somewhat heavily-built wrestler-type friend
being of a "Turkish built". And the man would be offended by this. If
The Identity is something that is supposed to describe everyone, why
does it fall short in so many different ways, can only work as
case-by-case basis, depending on context, region, and person. This
sounds to me the nationalisation plan wasn't fully thought through,
haphazardly done, without proper understanding. I believe it's high
time to abdandon it.

References

[1] [Population](asia-minor-population.html)

[2] [Turkish Population Structure and Genetic Ancestry](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4904778/)

[3] [Trahana](https://greekcitytimes.com/2022/08/05/traditional-trahana-recipe)

[4] [National Narratives, Migrations, Anatolia](../../2020/07/migrations-anatolia.html)

[5] [A Nostalgia for Modernism](../../2022/10/modernism-nostalgia-ozyurek.html)

[6] Gellner, [Nations and Nationalism](../../2013/03/nations-and-nationalism-gellner.html)

