# Patent troll on the verge of winning 1 percent of iPhone revenue

In 2012, Apple won the year's biggest patent verdict—more than $1
billion against Samsung.

The company also lost one of that year's biggest cases when an East
Texas jury ordered it to pay $368 million to a company named VirnetX
for infringing patents related to FaceTime and VPN On Demand functions
used in iPhones, iPads, and Macs. VirnetX is a company some call a
"patent troll" because its only business is now patent
enforcement. Then, in March, US District Judge Leonard Davis ordered
an ongoing royalty to be paid to VirnetX. The number was downright
stunning: 0.98 percent of revenue from iPhones and iPads sold in the
US.

---

Maybe some in US rejoiced when Samsung lost against Apple in a patent
skirmish: foreign company had lost, local company had won. Sadly for
them what goes around comes around - now it's their boy who is getting
spanked. I beieve a categorical ban against software patents is in
order. We all know if Xerox Parc filed and enforced patents for the
ideas it generated back in the day, there would be no Apple, and there
would be no Microsoft. Yet, we now see Apple patents such as "'163:
Enlarging documents by tapping the screen". Is this what law
profession is about now? Who makes money, an entire business dealing
with this shit? Someone actually reads these words, files some papers,
follows-up, shifts around resources, for what? What benefits do we,
the rest of the society get from this kind of structure?















