# The Culture Code

Clotaire Rapaille, The Culture Code

All human beings are born with brains divided into three parts. One
part, the cortex (the cerebral hemispheres), handles learning,
abstract thought, and imagination. The cortex comes into practical use
in most children after they are seven years old [..] [T]he limbic
system [..] deals with emotions.  Emotions are never simple; they are
often rife with contradiction.  In a business context, for instance,
when customers tell you they love you, this is good, right? What if
they love your products and never buy them?  Would you rather have
them hate your products and buy them all the time? The limbic brain is
structured between birth and age five [..]

Most humans find that in the struggle between intelligence and
emotion, the limbic often comes out on top, as we are much more likely
to allow our heart to guide us than reason.

The undisputed champion of the three brains, however, is the reptilian
brain (the brain stem and the cerebellum). The name comes from this
region's similarity to the brains of reptiles, which are believed to
be relatively unchanged from the brains their predecessors had 200
million years ago. Our reptilian brains program us for two major
things: survival and reproduction [.. Rapaille's famous quote here is
'the reptilian always wins'].

[At an emotional level] The Culture Code is the unconscious meaning we
apply to any given thing a car, a type of food, a relationship, even a
country via the culture in which we are raised [..] it all comes down
to the worlds in which we grew up. It is obvious to everyone that
cultures are different from one another.  What most people don't
realize, however, is that these differences actually lead to our
processing the same information in different ways [..]. The
combination of [an] experience and its accompanying emotion creates
something known widely as an imprint, a term first applied by Konrad
Lorenz. Once an imprint occurs, it strongly conditions our thought
processes and shapes our future actions. Each imprint helps make us
more of who we are. The combination of imprints defines us. An imprint
and its Code are like a lock and its combination. If you have all o of
the right numbers in the right sequence, you can open the lock [..]

Most of us imprint the meanings of the things most central to our
lives by the age of seven. This is because emotion is the central
force for children under the age of seven (if you need proof of this,
watch how often a young child’s emotional state changes in a single
hour), while after this, they are guided by logic (again, try arguing
with a nine-year-old). [And] Most people are exposed to only one
culture before the age of seven [..] Therefore, the extremely strong
imprints placed in their subconscious at this early age are determined
by the culture in which they are raised [..].

Americans receive a strong emotional imprint from peanut butter. Your
mother makes you a peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich when you are
little, and you associate it with her love and nurturance. Since I was
born in France, where peanut butter is not a household staple, I never
made this connection. I learned about peanut butter after the closing
of the window in time when I could form a strong emotional association
with it. Because it didn’t carry with it the weight of my mother’s
love, it was simply another foodstuff. I tasted it and didn’t find it
to be special in any way; in fact, I didn’t like it [neither did I..].

My review of hundreds of stories told by participants during the
discovery sessions revealed that the American Code for cars is
IDENTITY. Americans want cars that are distinctive, that will not be
mistaken for any other kind of car on the road, and that trigger
memories of Sunday drives, the freedom of getting behind the wheel for
the first time, and the excitement of youthful passion. A car with a
strong identity [..] has a much better chance of breakout sales than a
cookie-cutter sedan [..].

This Code, however, is far from universal across cultures.  German
automotive giant Daimler-Benz purchased Chrysler around the time the
PT Cruiser was on its way to production.  When the German executives
who now ran the company saw the car, they were appalled. Why? Because
the Code for cars in the German culture is decidedly different from
the American one. The German Code for cars is ENGINEERING. German car
manufacturers pride themselves on the quality of their engineering,
and this pride is so ingrained that people raised in that culture
think of engineering first when they think of cars.

Tug of War

Life is tension. Everything we experience in life lies somewhere on an
axis between two extremes. One cannot truly know pleasure without
knowing pain. One cannot legitimately feel joy without having felt
sorrow. The degree to which we feel an experience depends on where
that experience lies on the axis (a little painful, overwhelmingly
joyful, and so on).... Every culture is composed of an endless number
of archetypes and of the tensions between each archetype and an
opposing one... 

US

For example, one of the primary tensions in the American culture is
the one between freedom and prohibition.

<a name='france'/>

France

In France, for example, the archetype on the other side of the axis
from freedom is not prohibition; it is privilege. Throughout their
history, the French have vacillated between periods when a privileged
class ruled the day and periods when this class is overthrown and the
nation abolishes privileges and titles. The most famous example
occurred, of course, in 1789, though it is interesting to note that
Napoleon began a new era of titles and privilege not long
thereafter...  When Disney launched Euro Disney in Paris, they learned
how much privilege means to the French culture. Originally, the theme
park had the same rules as all other Disney parks, barring pets,
smoking, and the consumption of alcohol. The French stayed away in
droves because they didn’t like such restrictions. Disney broke
through to the French market only when they began to offer special
“privilege passes” that allowed access (for a premium price) to
certain parts of the park where visitors could take their pets, smoke,
and drink wine. The idea of islands of privilege in a sea of equality
was right on Code for [them].


