# Palestine, Lebanon, Hashemites

[T]he Ottomans, who had allied with Germany, were defeated in World
War I. To the victors went the spoils, which included the extensive
Ottoman province known as Syria. A secret wartime deal between the
British and the French, the Sykes-Picot agreement, had divided this
territory between the two allies on a line running roughly from Mount
Hermon due west to the sea. The area to the north was to be placed
under French control; the area to the south was to be placed under the
control of the British. Further divisions gave rise not only to the
modern country of Syria but to Lebanon, Jordan, and Israel as well.

<a name="lebanon"/>

The French had sought to be an influence in this region since the days
of Napoleon. [..] As a state, then, Lebanon had no prior reality. Its
main unifying feature was that its people felt an affinity with
France. The British area to the south was divided along similarly
arbitrary lines. During World War I, the Muslim clan that ruled the
western Hejaz region of the Arabian Peninsula, the Hashemites [today's
Jordanians], had supported the British. In return, the British
promised to install this group as rulers of Arabia after the war. But
London made commitments to other tribes as well. Based in Kuwait, a
rival clan, the Saud, had launched a war against the Turks in 1900,
trying to take control of the eastern and central parts of the Arabian
Peninsula. In a struggle that broke out shortly after World War I, the
Sauds defeated the Hashemites, so the British gave Arabia to
them—hence today’s Saudi Arabia.

The Hashemites received the consolation prize of Iraq, where they
ruled until 1958, when they were overthrown in a military coup
supported the British. [.. They]  were moved to an area to the north
along the eastern bank of the Jordan River. Centered on the town of
Amman and lacking any other obvious identity, this new protectorate
became known as Trans-Jordan, as in “the other side of the Jordan
River.” After the British withdrew in 1948, Trans-Jordan became
contemporary Jordan, a country that, like Lebanon and Saudi Arabia,
had never existed before. [..]

The British took the term Filistin, ran it through some ancient Greek,
and came up with Palestine as the name for this new region. Its
capital was Jerusalem, and its residents were thereafter called
Palestinians.

None of these remnants was a nation in the sense of having a common
history or identity except for Syria itself, which could claim a
lineage going back to biblical times. Lebanon, Jordan, and Palestine
were French and British inventions, created for their political
convenience. Their national history went back only as far as Mr. Sykes
and Monsieur Picot and some British double-dealing in Arabia.

Which is not to say that the inhabitants did not have a historical
connection to the land they lived on. If not their homeland, the
territory was certainly a home, but even here there was
complexity. Under Ottoman rule, the ownership of the land,
particularly in Palestine, had been semifeudal, with absentee
landlords collecting rent from the felaheen, or peasants, who actually
tilled the soil.

Enter the Jews. Members of the European Diaspora had been moving into
this region since the 1880s, joining relatively small Jewish
communities that had existed there (and in most other Arab regions)
for centuries. This immigration was part of the Zionist movement,
which—motivated by the European idea of the nation-state—sought to
create a Jewish homeland in the region the Jews had last controlled in
biblical times.

The Jews came in small numbers, settling on land purchased with funds
raised by Jews in Europe. Frequently this land was bought from the
absentee landlords, who sold it out from under their Arab
tenants. From the Jewish point of view, this was a legitimate
acquisition of land. From the tenants’ point of view, it was a direct
assault on their livelihood, as well as an eviction from land their
families had farmed for generations. As more Jews arrived, the
acquisition of land, the title to which was frequently dubious anyway,
became less scrupulous and even more intrusive.

While the Arabs generally (but not universally) saw the Jews as alien
invaders, they did not agree on something perhaps more important: to
whom did the residents of Palestine owe national allegiance?

The Syrians regarded Palestine the way they regarded Lebanon and
Jordan—as an integral part of Syria. They opposed an independent
Palestine, just as they opposed the existence of an independent Jewish
state, for the same reason they opposed Lebanese and Jordanian
independence: for them, the Sykes-Picot agreement was a violation of
Syria’s long-standing territorial integrity.

The Hashemites, formerly from the Arabian Peninsula, had even greater
problems with the Palestinians. The Hashemites were, after all, an
Arabian tribe transplanted on the east bank of the Jordan. After the
British left in 1948, they became rulers by default of what is today
the West Bank. While sharing Arab ethnicity and the Muslim faith with
the Palestinians who were native to the area, these transplants were
profoundly different in culture and history. In fact, the two groups
were quite hostile to each other. The Hashemite (now Jordanian) view
was that Palestine was legally theirs, at least the part left after
Israel gained independence. Indeed, from the time that the Jews became
more numerous and powerful in Palestine, the Hashemite rulers of
Jordan saw these new emigrants from eastern Europe and elsewhere as
allies against the native Palestinians [..]

In 1956 [Egypt] experienced a military coup that brought Gamal Abdel
Nasser to power. Nasser opposed the existence of Israel, but he had a
very different vision of the Palestinians. Nasser’s dream was the
creation of a single Arab nation, a United Arab Republic, which he
succeeded in establishing very briefly with the Syrians. For him, all
of the countries of the Arab world were illegitimate products of
imperialism and all should join together as one, under the leadership
of the largest and most powerful Arab country, Egypt. Viewed in that
context, there was no such thing as Palestine, and the Palestinians
were simply Arabs occupying a certain ill-defined piece of land.

All the Arab states within the region, then, save the Jordanians,
wanted the destruction of Israel, but none supported, or even
discussed, an independent Palestine. The Gaza strip, occupied by Egypt
during the 1948 Israeli War of Independence, was administered as part
of Egypt for the next twenty years. The West Bank remained a part of
Jordan. The Syrians wanted all of Jordan and Palestine returned to
them, along with Lebanon.

This was complicated enough, but then the Six Day War of 1967 shuffled
the deck once more.

In 1967, Egypt expelled UN peacekeeping forces from the Sinai
Peninsula and remilitarized it. They also blockaded the Straits of
Tiran and the Bab el Mandeb, cutting off the port of Eilat from the
Red Sea. In response, the Israelis attacked not only the Egyptians but
also the Jordanian West Bank, which had shelled Jerusalem, and the
Golan Heights in Syria, which had shelled Israeli settlements.

Israel’s success, including the occupation of Jordan west of the
river, transformed the entire region. Suddenly a large population of
unwilling Palestinian Arabs was under the rule of an Israeli
state. Israel’s initial intent seems to have been to trade the
conquered areas for a permanent peace agreement with its
neighbors. However, at a meeting held in Khartoum after the 1967 war,
the Arab states replied with the famous “three no’s”: no negotiation,
no recognition, no peace. At this point the Israeli occupation of
these formerly Palestinian areas became permanent.

It was also at this point that the Palestinians first came to be
viewed as a separate nation. The Egyptians had sponsored a group known
as the Palestine Liberation Organization and installed a young man
named Yasir Arafat to lead it. Nasser still clung to the idea of an
Arab federation, but no other nations chose to accept his
leadership. Nasser wasn’t prepared to submit to anyone else, which
left the PLO and its constituent organizations, such as al-Fatah, by
default the sole advocates for a Palestinian state.

The Jordanians were happy to have the Palestinians living in Israeli
territory, as an Israeli problem. They were also happy to recognize
the PLO as representing the Palestinian people, and just as happy that
the Israelis didn’t allow the Palestinians to be independent. The
Syrians supported their own organizations, such as the Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine, which advocated that Israel should be
destroyed and that the Palestinians should be incorporated into
Syria. So the recognition of Palestinian nationalism by the Arabs was
neither universal nor friendly. Indeed, Arab support for the
Palestinians seemed to increase in proportion to the distance the
Arabs were from Palestine.

It should be obvious from this summary that the moral argument that
rages about the rights of Israel, which any American president must
deal with, is enormously complex. Beyond the substantial displacement
of populations that occurred with the creation of modern Israel, the
immigration of European Jews did not constitute the destruction of a
Palestinian nation, because no such nation had ever existed. The
Palestinian national identity in fact emerged only out of resistance
to Israeli occupation after 1967. And the hostility toward Palestinian
national claims was as intense from Arabs as it was from Jews. Israeli
foreign policy was shaped by these realities and took advantage of
them in order to impose the current political order on the region. But
whatever was the case in the past, there is certainly today a
self-aware Palestinian nation, and that is part of what must inform
U.S. policy going forward.

Apart from dealing with this incredibly convoluted history, which
weighs on any moral judgment, U.S. policy in this region must
accommodate two other basic facts. First, whatever the Israelis’
historical claim, from a twentieth-century perspective, the Jews were
settlers from another continent who displaced the natives.
