# Bertrand Russell on Middle East

January 1970

The latest phase of the undeclared war in the Middle East is based
upon a profound miscalculation. The bombing raids deep into Egyptian
territory will not persuade the civilian population to surrender, but
will stiffen their resolve to resist. This is the lesson of all aerial
bombardment. The Vietnamese who have endured years of American heavy
bombing have responded not by capitulation but by shooting down more
enemy aircraft. In 1940 my own fellow countrymen resisted Hitler’s
bombing raids with unprecedented unity and determination. For this
reason, the present Israeli attacks will fail in their essential
purpose, but at the same time they must be condemned vigorously
throughout the world. The development of the crisis in the Middle East
is both dangerous and instructive. For over 20 years Israel has
expanded by force of arms. After every stage in this expansion Israel
has appealed to “reason” and has suggested “negotiations”. This is the
traditional role of the imperial power, because it wishes to
consolidate with the least difficulty what it has already taken by
violence. Every new conquest becomes the new basis of the proposed
negotiation from strength, which ignores the injustice of the previous
aggression...

The refugees who surround Palestine in their hundreds of thousands
were described recently by the Washington journalist I.F. Stone as
“the moral millstone around the neck of world Jewry.”  Many of the
refugees are now well into the third decade of their precarious
existence in temporary settlements. The tragedy of the people of
Palestine is that their country was “given” by a foreign Power to
another people for the creation of a new State. The result was that
many hundreds of thousands of innocent people were made permanently
homeless. With every new conflict their number have increased. How
much longer is the world willing to endure this spectacle of wanton
cruelty [quite a long time apparently]? It is abundantly clear that
the refugees have every right to the homeland from which they were
driven, and the denial of this right is at the heart of the continuing
conflict. No people anywhere in the world would accept being expelled
en masse from their own country; how can anyone require the people of
Palestine to accept a punishment which nobody else would tolerate?

A permanent just settlement of the refugees in their homeland is an
essential ingredient of any genuine settlement in the Middle East. We
are frequently told that we must sympathize with Israel because of the
suffering of the Jews in Europe at the hands of the Nazis. I see in
this suggestion no reason to perpetuate any suffering. What Israel is
doing today cannot be condoned, and to invoke the horrors of the past
to justify those of the present is gross hypocrisy. Not only does
Israel condemn a vast number. of refugees to misery; not only are many
Arabs under occupation condemned to military rule; but also Israel
condemns the Arab nations only recently emerging from colonial status,
to continued impoverishment as military demands take precedence over
national development. All who want to see an end to bloodshed in the
Middle East must ensure that any settlement does not contain the seeds
of future conflict. Justice requires that the first step towards a
settlement must be an Israeli withdrawal from all the territories
occupied in June, 1967. A new world campaign is needed to help bring
justice to the long–suffering people of the Middle East.

