# Aluminum Trihydride - Alane

[Link](https://phys.org/news/2016-09-team-alane-hydrogen-fuel-option.amp)

Team discovers way to make alane a better hydrogen fuel option for
vehicles.

"Alane is great because it meets all of the criteria put forth by the
Department of Energy for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles for energy
capacity, weight, system temperature, and cost" said Vitalij Pecharsky
... Professor of Materials Science. "Aluminum is cheap, hydrogen is
abundant [... but f]or the longest time it's been considered
impossible to use for vehicle applications" ..

Researchers paired the predictive advantages of computational analysis
with physical experiment to tackle the applied materials
challenge. Along with titanium catalyst dopants and hydrogen,
theorists looked at vacancy defects, or missing aluminum, on the
surface of aluminum powders and established that this combination
working in concert is critical to the low-energy formation of
alane. Because such defects can be produced by ball milling to break
up mechanically the atomic structure of the metal, experimentalists
ball-milled aluminum powders in combination with hydrogen and
titanium, and they confirmed the prediction by producing AlH3, or
alane. The process used significantly less pressure, only about 5,000
PSI (or 30 times less pressure), to create alane than that needed for
equilibrium methods.

[TdWorld](https://www.tdworld.com/generation-and-renewables/next-chapter-story-hydrogen-power)

Ardica specializes in the production of Alane, a highly stable,
extremely lightweight hydrogen powder now used by a select set of
customers in industrial and military applications. The U.S. Army has
been working closely with Ardica for many years to test Alaneâ€™s
superior ability to power a wide range of mobile and vehicular
applications. By replacing traditional batteries, Alane greatly
reduces weight and extends operations while increasing the safety and
efficiency of the soldiers.

The U.S. Army chose Alane because it can be stored, shipped, stocked,
and accessed easily. Alane does not lose its energy potential over
time and is unaffected by temperature variations. It does not require
massive capital investment to develop new infrastructure, and can be
recycled and regenerated"

