# Week 12

Some day in the future we will look back at previous modes of
schooling and wonder how humanity even survived this barbaric style of
teaching.

The learning speed Khan refers to might also be indirectly related to
different sytles of learning; according to Drucker there are four:
learning by doing, teaching, writing, listening. The "good students"
of now are almost always "listener learners". They are able to keep
their listening attention for long periods of time. But others learn
differently. EaaS like Khanacademy can help other learning styles to
thrive. Plus, the old style is already incredibly inefficient even
what for what it is engineered to do. We need to move on. Time to
rock-n-roll. Look at this guy. How can any teacher compete with that?
Do they have to?

Salman Khan: "When I started posting video lessons on YouTube
[KhanAcademy], it became clear that many students around the world
were using them to learn outside of a formal classroom. What was more
surprising was that I soon got letters and comments from
teachers. Some were pointing their students to the videos as a
supplemental tool. Others, however, were using them to rethink their
class­ rooms altogether.

These teachers saw that I had already made available lec­tures that
students could watch at their own time and pace. So the teachers
decided to stop giving lectures themselves. Instead, they used scarce
class time for the type of problem­ solving more normally done as
homework. Students could then watch the videos at home. This solved
two problems at once.

As we’ve seen, students learn at different rates. Attention spans tend
to max out at around fifteen minutes. Active learn­ing creates more
durable neural pathways than passive learn­ing. Yet the passive
in-class lecture—in which the entire class is expected to absorb
information at the same rate, for fifty min­utes or an hour, while
sitting still and silent in their chairs— remains our dominant
teaching mode. This results in the majority of students being lost or
bored at any given time, even when there is a great lecturer.

They then go home and attempt to do homework, which raises another set
of concerns. Generally, kids are asked to work in a vacuum. If they
get stuck on a problem, there’s nowhere to turn for
help. Frustration—and often sleep deprivation—sets in. By the time
class reconvenes, chances are the exact nature of the difficulty has
been forgotten. Throughout this process, students get limited feedback
on how well they are actually grasping the information. Until the unit
exam, teachers too are left with little feedback on how well the
students understand the topic"

---

Should there be no privatization?

I did not say that

I am not for government running companies. But u have to draw a line somewhere, protect the public from excessive privatization. Ever since 1989 things got out of hand.

---

Question

Why would a farmer like capitalism?

They want a good price for their crops

But then when things go wrong, they also want to be bailed out (we are needed to feed people, we are too important to fail). I guess their bad habits still persist in the financial class today.

---

Question

Is finance related to farming?

Yes

First futures contract was for rice trading in the Far East.

---

Question

Worst examples of trampling of public sphere in any country?

Go to Goatfucker HQ

Farming started around Hilly Flanks, so this region even today suffers
from an absence of public sphere. Go to the "richest" area in
Istanbul, and look at the sidewalks, how narrow they are. This only
happens when property owners extends their sphere by any means, at the
expense of the public.

The Gezi protest in TR, BTW, were not primarly about protecting the
greenery. It was about protecting one of the few remaining public
spaces in that area.

---

Question

But isn't the Jesus myth still weird?... Having no father all that...?

No

Farmers, villagers at the time were praying to bones, let's not
forget, to their "ancient ones" (bcz inheriting land is
all-important). "The man without a father" in this age is great sales
pitch - whether created by divine intervention, or a smart politician.

---

Steve Keen on secular stagnation

[[-]](https://youtu.be/_zvmnKVGMKc)

---

MSNBC Gaslights Viewers & Dishonestly Smears Wikileaks \#JimmyDore

[[-]](https://youtu.be/IYSOmD5LyYs)

---

\#MRI

![](37-58.png)

---

\#guns \#lotsOfGuns

![](out.jpg)

---

