# Week 40

Question

How does the dynamic of "opressed left leading to far-right" work?

Fucka me, fucka you

Left is there to help, providing social safety net, etc. If they are
opressed, as in Brazil (Lula is the most popular politician, if he was
not jailed he would won the election, polls confirm this), the public
thinks "the guy who would help me is in jail, establishment is trying
to hurt me, so I'll elect someone worse to hurt everyone". It's
simple, really.

---

Twitter

Spot the robot dog dancing to UpTown Funk is simultaneously both
terrifying and hilarious.

Not scary

.. but cool.

---

EFF

Stupid patent of the month [on VR]: Does the '599 patent belong to the
true inventors of VR? No. The patent itself acknowledges that VR
already existed when the application was filed in mid-1999. Rather, it
claims minor tweaks to existing VR systems such as having participants
see pre-recorded videos.

Ha ha

---

Comment

Military / Industrial / Media / Financial / Prison complex. This name
keeps getting longer. Another one is LBTQA - keeps getting
longer. Both are related to corporate Dems somehow. By only focusing
on the latter and related issues, they forgot to limit the former.

Yes

---

Voit

Today’s result pretty much completely rules out generic versions for
both the most popular SUSY models [relating to String Theory, and
"multiverse"] still standing (Split SUSY), as well as the most popular
class of GUTs. This provides another nail in the coffin of the
SUSY-GUT paradigm

But but..

I just saw Spock's father in an alternate universe in ST Disco. With a
goatee! How can SUSY be wrong?

![](spockdad.jpg)

(I kid you not - TV-movie land is still workin this thing..)

---

R. Roberts

If you think the economy is a zero-sum game and getting rich makes
people poor, you have trouble explaining the last 250 years. That
wealth can be created and not just rearranged or come at someone's
expense is so basic but may be the single most important insight of
economics.

Inequality breeds discontent

The rich need to fix it for their own good.

If QE money printing causes house prices to rise and new home buyers
are priced out of the market this is not good. The rich would still
afford those homes bcz QE would "raise their boat". This is
inequality.

Roberts is probably libertarian and does not like most FED actions, so
maybe he'd be against QE himself, but even then, there are many areas
the free market does not work, contributing to inequality. Health
insurance for example. Or policing, or the fire department. Or
education.

The most crucial part of the modern economy is completely outside of
the free market forces. Banks create new money while giving credit,
since they cannot do this for everyone, they need to select potential
winners. Demand outstrips supply for credit, pricing cannot work, so
credit is not allocated according to free market rules, it is
rationed.

---

Zizek

How strange today in our society the scope of what is possible and
what is impossible is distributed [oddly]. On the one hand media is
telling us soon we will be immortals, eternal life, singularity,
collective mind, we will travel not only to the Moon but to
Mars... Almost everything is possible. But it's not possible to raise
taxes for the 1%.

Yes... very strange

---

History

Rudolf Diesel, before he made diesel engines, made ammonia engines.

Too bad he stopped

Ammonia might make a comeback though. Ammonia is clean-fuel, either
through H2 or on its own, it creates zero emissions.

---

Twitter

Here's a dystopian vision of the future: A real announcement I
recorded on the Beijing-Shanghai bullet train. (I've subtitled it so
you can watch in silence.)

Yuck

BTW, Uygurs are being opressed in China, through that system, and
more. Here is one dissident.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eViswN602_k

One report says a million Uygurs are in Chinese concentration camps..

https://mobile.twitter.com/izakyol/status/1055688867435737088/video/1

Will NYT make a cover photo of *that*?

Or do we wait until Trump takes the other side of the issue so they
can hit him with it? Like in case of  / bcz of Saudis MSM suddently
remembers the war in Yemen?

---

Comment

But Romer is a 2018 Nobel Prize winner!

No

The prize is called Riksbank [Swedish central bank] prize in economic
sciences in honour of Alfred Nobel. It was abbreviated to Nobel Prize
later. Alfred Nobel was a chemist, engineer, inventor, who liked
blowing shit up (he invented the dynamite). There is no way he would
have authorized giving money to economics which wasn't even considered
a proper science then. Some would argue of course, it still isn't one
now.

---

Article

In the context of rising emissions, this makes a [hydrogen powered]
plane like Element One — designed to create zero-emissions —
absolutely transformative. The aircraft would use ultra-light hydrogen
fuel cells (stored either as a gas or liquid) to tackle the
industry-wide challenge of battery density not matching traditional
fuel density (in other words the weight of batteries needed to power
aircraft could be overwhelming).

Right

Battery based electric plane (with battery enough for hours of flight)
would require battery so big it'd have trouble taking off.

Question

But I heard battery based electric plane mentioned in Iron Man 2!

Yes

That was the E. Musk cameo wasn't it.. Fine. And I saw an Atari
[ad](borregas_syd_mead_bladerunner_1.jpg) in 80s Bladerunner. Was
Atari the future...?

It's just a movie.

---

Question

How about that Khabib / McGregor fight?

It was fine

The debacle in the end is not out-of-the-ordinary. Similar
altercations happened before - nothing special there.

But these fights are too slow. I would put a limit to grappling, with
the cage and limitless grappling the matches gravitate away from
real-life scenario, it becomes just a sport. Also Khabib is a good
athlete, but word is he got to title without facing off w too many top
dogs. I watched one of his earlier fights (with Tibau, competent
fighter), he could not do a single take-down - little weird for a
hot-shot wrester. In the end he won by points, which surprised many. I
think "they" (the man behind the scenes) let the kid through because
he looks more hip - he has a "thing" with the hat, backstory, the bear
etc..

It's a show, and shows need marketing. NBA needed to expand in China
all of a sudden Yao is playing in NBA. Did US run out of good
basketball players? No. If someone from your country is playing in the
league you'd be more willing to watch it.

---

Comment

Immigrants are more productive than natives, as measured by number of
patents

That assumes patents are good measure of innovation

The paper here says otherwise. Wright Brothers made a small
improvement to existing flight tech and patented. Fo da
money.. (blocking further innovation in the field for another 20 years
the paper also says). Immigrants might be "hungrier", hence more
patents because the need for $$$. That doesnt mean they are more
innovative than natives.

Picking talent who can already innovate, or accepting students into
programs / grants that crank out innovators is different. Looking at
broad population, incentives one cannot make the OP's comment
categorically.

---

Today I want to touch upon one trend [... it ] gets far too little
attention. There is currently a struggle of enormous consequence
taking place in the United States and throughout the world. In it we
see two competing visions for the future. On one hand we see a growing
worldwide movement torn apart authoritarianism to an oligarchy and
kleptocracy, on the other hand we see a growing movement toward
strengthening democracy toward respecting diversity toward fighting
for equality realism and for economic social racial and environmental
justice.

This struggle has consequences for the entire future of the planet
economically socially [..] We see massive and growing income and
wealth inequality where the world's top 1% now owns more wealth than
99%, where a small number of huge Wall Street and international
financial institutions exert enormous impact over the lives of
billions of people in countries throughout the world.

Further and importantly many people in industrialized countries are
questioning whether democracy can actually deliver for them. They look
at their lives they look at what is going on in their families and
they find themselves working longer hours for lower wages than they
used to they're falling further and further behind.  In the United
States they see billionaires buying elections and they see a political
and economic elite growing wealthier even as their own children's
future grow dimmer. In these countries we often have political leaders
who exploit these fears of economic insecurity by amplifying
resentments stoking intolerance [..]

It should be clear by now that Donald Trump in the right-wing movement
that supports him is not a phenomenon unique to the United States. All
around the world in Europe in Russia in the Middle East in Asia Latin
America and elsewhere we are seeing movements led by demagogues who
exploit people's fears prejudices and grievances to gain and hold on
to power. Just this past weekend in Brazil's presidential election
right-wing leader Bolsonaro who has been called the Donald Trump of
Brazil made a very strong showing in the first round of voting. He has
a long record of attacks against immigrants minorities women against
LGBT people . [..] He has praised Brazil's military dictatorship. He
has said. among other things, in order to deal with crime police
should simply be allowed to shoot more criminals. This is the person
who might soon lead the world's fifth most populous country and its
ninth largest economy. Meanwhile at the same time Brazil's most
popular politician former president Lula de Silva is imprisoned on
highly questionable charges and prevented from running again despite
polls that showed that he was in first place. Brazil is one example
there are others which I will discuss but I think it's important that
we understand that what we are seeing now in the world is the rise of
a new authoritarian axis while the leaders who make up this axis may
differ in some respects they share key attributes.

Bernie hit the nail on the head

Lula (the left) is in jail, the result: right wing demagogue
Bolsonaro. In US the left has been pushed aside in gentler (but
effective) ways, the result: Donald Trump. In Turkland too, the left
was brutally opressed during the 80s coup (all political spectrum felt
the heat, but the left was especiallly targeted and opressed), the
result: well, we see the mess now. In Russia you could argue Putin is
the result of oligarchs running amok. With no left keeping the rich in
check, the rich plundered state resources. When Putin was elected he
had one mandate: seek and destroy. Seek and destroy he did, he had a
shit list (of businessman), and dirty laundry on the people in that
shit list, he took them out one by one. Now there is a different
oligarchy, and kleptocracy, but they are connected to someone (at
least it is assumed) who garnered more votes than the next guy.

These "leaders" though, mostly, cannot build. They are a freak of
nature, they are there to destroy. To build, we need progressive
politics and a rearrangement of the polity around it. Otherwise there
will be demagogues, and senseless polarization.

---

Story

After he won the Nobel Prize, Max Planck went around Germany giving
the same standard lecture on the new quantum mechanics. Over time, his
chauffeur memorized the lecture and said, “Would you mind, Professor
Planck, because it’s so boring to stay in our routine, if I gave the
lecture in Munich and you just sat in front wearing my chauffeur’s
hat?” Planck said, “Why not?” And the chauffeur got up and gave this
long lecture on quantum mechanics. After which a physics professor
stood up and asked a perfectly ghastly question. The speaker said,
“Well I’m surprised that in an advanced city like Munich I get such an
elementary question. I’m going to ask my chauffeur to reply.”

Nice

---

De Vany

[Paraphrasing] Gorillas were vegeterian. Meat allowed humans to trade
stomach mass for brain mass. We gained better mobility, became
smarter. Gorillas are nearly extinct.

Right

We got here not by being vegeterians. But I am not against
vegeterianism; there are many sources of protein nowadays. Also the
new meat replacement products are great.

---

B. Shapiro

[Politicon, parahphrasing] Sweden, Norway blah blah tax 60K earning on
average 60%, this is how they can offer healthcare.

Scare tactic

Canada taxes 25% on average for 60K and they have single payer. Health
insurance is not too hard or expensive (not sure which one BS was
referring to, insurance or delivery, but he muddled through it  all
anyway, "soundbyting", equating "free health" with high tax). M4A will
be cheaper and more effective then US's current scheme, that's for
sure. This is not a problem the "free market" can solve.

---

Forbes

There is a great irony that spans the presidential terms of George
W. Bush and Barack Obama. President Bush, widely viewed as a Texas oil
man, presided over eight straight years of declining U.S. crude oil
production. In the year 2000, just before President Bush took office,
U.S. crude oil production averaged 5.8 million barrels per day (bpd)
according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). During
President Bush's last year in office, 2008, U.S. crude oil production
averaged 5.0 million bpd.

The irony is that President Obama - who is not viewed as a friend of
the oil and gas industry - has presided over rising oil production in
each of the seven years he has been in office. [..] From that low
point in 2008, U.S. oil production has grown each year to reach 9.4
million bpd in 2015 -- a gain of 88% during Obama's presidency. This
is in fact the largest domestic oil production increase during any
presidency in  U.S. history.

MIA EPA

Yes "shale was getting started" right when Bam started his 1st term,
and WH did sour on shale later. But it took some time while shale did
serious environmental damage. EPA should have clamped down on them
hard and fast.

