# Marx

Marx is not synonymous with socialism. At the time he wrote he was one
of the many socialist writers. In his writings he made lots of
conceptual mistakes; a big one was confusing ownership with
power. In second-wave, smokestack industrial societies the integrators
have the power. So his misguided idea of revolution's target
opposition itself was misguided. See
[link](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2011/03/integrators.html),

>Marx, in the mid-nineteenth century, thought that whoever owned the
>tools and technology—the "means of production"—would control
>society. He argued that, because work was interdependent, workers
>could disrupt production and seize the tools from their boses. Once
>they owned the tools, they would rule society
>
>Yet history played a trick on him. For the very same inter-dependency
>gave even greater leverage to a new group— those who orchestrated or
>integrated the system. In the end it-was neither the owners nor the
>workers who came to power. In both capitalist and socialist nations,
>it was the integrators who rose to the top.<

Another huge mistake is in his theory of value.

Actually this one is worse than a mistake; his logic showed if he
followed his argument until the end, it would mean revolution was not
necessary. What did he do faced with the collapse of his theory? He
fudged. This in my view is unforgiveable for any thinker. Steve Keen
talks about this in [this
podcast](https://youtu.be/2b1JETZ6-Ck?t=1482).

(BTW: what kind of moron thinks machines do not add value to
industrial production? This is key in today's inequality debate, and
Toffler's waves, a recovered Marxist)

Whether or not there is revolution is beside the point. The truth of
the matter is Marx's reasoning and path toward it was completely
false.  Today's Marx to many is a mascot; with the big beard, looking
"philosophical", who is *somehow* related to the idea of a
revolution. For people who want to pursue such route, and in this era
of image making, his can be a useful. But anyone who wants to develop
any global understanding of the world such as it is today, this
particular route will be tough.

Related

[Chomsky](https://youtu.be/d_LPraj3_s4?t=231): There was no socialism
in Russia, after 1918. The "revolutionists" called themselves
socialists, the West liked they used that word, because now the right
in the West could associate authoritarinism with socialism.
