# Microgrids

[Link](https://www.gencellenergy.com/news/power-engineering-international-interview-are-microgrids-the-future-for-utilities/)

There’s currently a lot of talk about how we support environmental
legislation while balancing a grid under pressure, not to mention how
to meet future energy demands. In areas such as North and South
America specifically, frequent severe weather incidents that bring
down grid power for weeks and months, require much more direct and
immediate solutions.

This has led to the rise of decentralized grids or microgrids, which
are now not only being trialed for critical utilities backup power but
for some more remote communities, used as mainstream primary power
too. For the modern utility business, these solutions were typically
seen as unconventional, but now increasingly viewed as offering very
compelling business models.

The compromise for many though has been the continued reliance on
polluting and un-environmental diesel generator technology to support
these projects. However, there’s now a 100% clean, weather independent
solution that’s not only ready to replace diesel generators, but also
provide a host of other benefits too – the modern [fuel cell](https://www.gencellenergy.com/our-products/).

--

We should not depend on centralized power distribution, especially not
purely electric power distribution. If the City of New York invested
in microgrids it would not experience the blackout it experienced
recently.

The product mentioned above is Gencell A5 - an off-grid power solution
which uses an inexpensive liquid fuel, ammonia. Emission free, and
when its source production method is green, itself green.  Ammonia
can be transported easily and is the densest hydrogen carrier. The
off-grid power installation can be supplied its fuel through regular
transport, efficient, carrying lots of energy in bulk. Some solution
have the modules produce their own fuel from water electrolysis, and
store that for emergency.

Even better the electric grids can be removed completely from the
equation, making even centralized power distribution H2 gas based. The
backup then would store the gas itself as backup fuel.

Microgrids are catching on: Here is [news](https://microgridknowledge.com/municipal-microgrids-connecticut-grants/) from Connecticut: 

"Three microgrid projects are advancing through the final stages of
review, approval and funding in the fourth and final round of
Connecticut’s pioneering grant program for municipal microgrids.

The projects — for a hospital, small town and naval base — are the
last of 13 that won funding in four solicitations. Nine of the other
microgrid projects are now in operation and one is in construction.

The state created the program in 2012, making it the first to fund
municipal microgrids in the nation. Connecticut was seeking a way to
keep power running for critical public facilities and services during
severe weather after being hard hit in 2011, first by a hurricane and
then by a freak October snowfall. Trees still laden with leaves became
weighted with ice and snow and fell on power lines."

Why are microgrids becoming more prevalent now? The Trump tax bill is
a disaster for the middle-class, but, as a "fringe benefit", it had a
nice clause for [opportunity
zones](https://microgridknowledge.com/opportunity-zones-microgrid/).

"Opportunity zones, created in the US as part of the 2017 Tax Cut and
Jobs Act, are making a splash among green energy and microgrid
investors.

'Opportunity zones create tax incentives for investors in real estate,
businesses and assets in areas that might not otherwise draw
investment' says John Beidle, chief executive of New Energy
Opportunities, in an interview with Microgrid Knowledge. 'The further
stacking of tax incentives in these areas for microgrid facilities is
really a once in a lifetime opportunity especially if new employment
is brought into these areas. Hopefully, the energy tax credits get
extended to more fully coincide with the opportunity zone lifetime.'

The investment tax credit, or Section 48, allows project owners or
investors to be eligible for federal business energy investment tax
credits for installing designated renewable energy equipment placed in
service from 2006 through 2024. Fuel cells were added in 2018."





