# Quantity over Quality

Phillips, *Humans: A Brief History of How We F---D It All Up*

Around 13,000 years ago in the Fertile Crescent of ancient
Mesopotamia, humans started doing things very differently. They had
what you might describe as “a change of lifestyle,” and in this case
it meant a lot more than cutting down on carbs and joining a
gym. Rather than the traditional approach to obtaining food—namely,
going to look for it—they hit upon the neat trick of bringing the food
to them. They started planting crops.

The rise of agriculture wouldn’t just make it easier to grab some
lunch; it would completely upturn society and profoundly change the
natural world around us. Before agriculture, the standard thing for
human groups was to move around with the seasons, following where the
food was. Once you’ve got a load of rice or wheat growing, though, you
really need to stick around to look after it. And so you get permanent
settlements, villages and, sometime after that, towns. And, of course,
all the stuff that goes with that.

Agriculture was such an obviously great idea that it sprang up
independently in loads of different places, all within a few thousand
years of each other on several different continents—in Mesopotamia,
India, China, Central America and South America at the very
least. Except that there’s a school of thought that says agriculture
wasn’t actually our greatest leap forward. In fact, it may have been a
dreadful, dreadful mistake.

For starters, the origin of agriculture was also the origin of the fun
concept of “wealth inequality,” as elites began to emerge who had way
more stuff than everybody else and started bossing everybody else
around. It may also have been the origin of war as we know it, because
once you have a village, you also have the danger of raids on it by
the next village. Agriculture brings new diseases into contact with
humans, while living together in ever larger settlements creates the
conditions for epidemics. There’s also evidence that suggests people
in nonagricultural societies ate more, worked less and may well have
been healthier.

Basically (this idea goes), an awful lot of what sucks about modern
life was because thousands of years ago somebody stuck some seeds in
the ground. Agriculture hung around not because it made everybody’s
lives better, but because it gave societies that did it a Darwinian
leg up over the ones that didn’t: they could have more children faster
(agriculture can feed more people, and once you’re no longer moving
around all the time, you don’t have to wait for your kid to be able to
walk before having another), and they could claim more and more land,
eventually chasing all the nonfarmers off. As the author Jared
Diamond, a proponent of the “agriculture was a horrible mistake”
theory, put it in a 1987 article in Discover magazine: “Forced to
choose between limiting population or trying to increase food
production, we chose the latter and ended up with starvation, warfare
and tyranny.” In short, we went for quantity over quality.

*---*

War, empires, all results of agriculture. I don't think it could be
stopped though; the idea is emergent, you give enough time ppl will
start figuring it out. The rest will be history. Preferring quantity
is not too bad in itself (increases chances of survival), we just need
to come to terms with what happened, the culture that was created
afterwards (and destroy it). 








