# Lee Smolin

I always heard Smolin's name associated with Loop Quantum Gravity, an
alternate group of physicists looking for the Holy Grail - unification
of all forces of nature and quantum mechanics. But Smolin apparently
has a seperate research on his own and recently published a book
called *Einstein's Unfinished Revolution*.

In it he describes his ensemble approach, or temporal relativism which
does away with space, makes time essential and posits behind the
curtain the only thing needed is the concept of a relationship graph
with nodes and connections. A certain interpretation of these graphs
is what creates space; closeness means having similar views (as in
neighbors), and the system always tries to maximize variety of
views. Macro objects like people would have less change to have
similar views, but small objects can and do have similar views such as
a water molecule, which is similar to all water molecules. This
similarity, seeking of diverse views while it transitions into what we
see is space, is what creates the illusion of QM and its weird
outcomes, like "spooky action at a distance".

Smolin can generate QM as an approximation from this model. 

Smolin categorizes physicists as realists or anti-realists, some
believe the universe exists without anyone interacting with it,
others, like Copenhagen QM people who say "measuring something bring
that thing into existence".

[![](http://img.youtube.com/vi/r-L690pQhuo/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/r-L690pQhuo?t=902)

Interview with Smolin

[Quanta Magazine](https://www.quantamagazine.org/were-stuck-inside-the-universe-lee-smolin-has-an-idea-for-how-to-study-it-anyway-20190627/)

[Jim Rutt](https://twitter.com/jim_rutt/status/1154701707537989632)

More from Smolin: 

"Certainly, quantum mechanics explains many aspects of nature, and it
does so with supreme elegance. Physicists have developed a very
powerful tool kit for explaining diverse phenomena in terms of quantum
mechanics, so when you master quantum mechanics you control a lot
about nature. At the same time, physicists are always dancing around
the gaping holes that quantum mechanics leaves in our understanding of
nature. The theory fails to provide a picture of what is going on in
individual processes, and it often fails to explain why an experiment
turns out one way rather than another.

These gaps and failures matter because they underlie the fact that we
have gotten only partway toward solving the central problems in
science before seeming to run out of steam. I believe that we have not
yet succeeded in unifying quantum theory with gravity and spacetime
(which is what we mean by quantizing gravity), or in unifying the
interactions, because we have been working with an incomplete and
incorrect quantum theory.

But I suspect that the implications of building science on incorrect
foundations go further and deeper. The trust in science as a method to
resolve disagreements and locate truth is undermined when a radical
strand of anti-realism flourishes at the foundations of science. When
those who set the standard for what constitutes explanation are
seduced by a virulent mysticism, the resulting confusion is felt
throughout the culture"

He says science inspires a lot of other things, and the more science
remains in its current insane position, the more insane the world
around will get. Just look at all the baseless multiverse bullshit
stories and the bullshit discourse of the body politic. There is also
the escapism aspect of course which must be why the general public is
[so interested](https://youtu.be/NGH8Rt_SNy8?t=1706) in such
theories. Art, interpretation of everything around us, degrade. Soon
you go cuckoo and start watching stuff like
[this](https://youtu.be/R6G3-Zc9mtM).

For the future of physics and in terms of personality if there is to
be someone to fix the current state of affairs, Smolin is probably the
right guy (or someone like him). First of all the fixer has to be an
American; that's where the energy was and has been for decades on
theoretical physics and for some other cultural reasons, at least for
the era we are in. "The guy" would have rubbed shoulders with the
greats, and Smolin has, with Penrose, Feynman (he asked Feynman about
the initial version of his theory, he reportedly replied 'not crazy
enough to be right' - vintage F).

Beyond the findings, I agree with LS emphasis on _where_ and _how_ to
look for the grail - background independence, reciprocity (u effect
particle, particle must effect u back), and generating the visible
from an unvisible -but real- construct.

I particularly enjoyed his book's historical emphasis on the divisions
between Newton and Leibniz who independently invented Calculus. There
was much argument thereafter abt who invented it first, but apparently
there were deeper differences between the two. Smolin took his idea of
relationalism from Leibniz who argued, centuries ago, that space
cannot be assumed to be omnipresent, or taken at its face value, but
has to be something "emerging" from something else.

Additions

Not having QM randomness does not mean "clockwork universe" coming
back; there are still many sources of randomness, including ourselves,
as players in an ancestral simulation bcz we are somewhat from outside
of "the game". Smolin's own approach leaves the possibility of
unexpected events.

But with the right general enough question, future does become
predictable, one cannot discount that either. Especially when
decisions come from a small, finite set of choices for social science,
chaos is not so chaotic (as Bruce B. de Mesquita showed). 

Then there is also the tiniest measurement mistakes in the beginning
blowing up in time later for non-linear systems thing that are
*completely determinisitic*, but that is another story. Lota nuance
here.
