# B. Mesquita and Iran

[Link](http://bigthink.com/in-their-own-words/how-i-poured-cold-water-on-a-nuclear-iran)

In 2007 I was asked using my forecasting model to look over a period
of a few years into the future to analyze the likelihood that Iran was
going to build a nuclear weapon. My model led to the conclusion that
within the 95% confidence interval Iran was not going to build a
nuclear weapon, although the leadership would advocate developing
enough weapons grade fuel so that people would know they know how to
build a weapon because they could gain all the political advantage
from showing that they have the technology to make weapons grade fuel
and none of the political liability by making it.

When I briefed the government on that forecast there was a lot of
resistance and during the briefing I pointed out the data that I had
used were after all their data, so we couldn’t argue about the data. 
We could argue about the logic of my model and compare that to the
logic they had used to reach a different conclusion.

My model’s logic was completely transparent and so I said "All right,
here is my logic, you tell me where there is a flaw in reasoning or
tell me what the reasoning was that led to your conclusion."  This led
to a rather unpleasant exchange.  I went off not very happy.  I got an
email from the chief intelligence officer responsible for
proliferation issues two days later indicating that my briefing had
kept him up for two nights because he couldn’t answer my question with
anything other than at the end of the day it really was his belief,
but he didn’t have hard evidence for his belief.

That person - this was in August, 2007 - was the person who in
October, 2007 wrote a new national intelligence estimate, which was
made public that stated that we had no hard evidence that Iran was
trying to build a nuclear weapon and had not had any such hard
evidence since 2005.

I'm sure they had lots of sources of information that were compatible
with what I had to say.  I'm not suggesting that I was responsible for
that change in view, but I think my model helped a little bit to
contribute to it and in particular it helped to compel people to have
an internal debate about exactly how did we arrive at this
conclusion.  That is what a good model should do whether it’s being
used in the intelligence community, it’s being used in the business
community, it’s being used by NGOs all of whom have used it.  It
should prompt debate when it disagrees with the conclusions that the
people in that organization have come to.

I feel very good about the notion that I made a little contribution to
tying President Bush’s hands because this national intelligence
assessment was made public because that is the period when people were
talking about a third world war, which thank God didn’t happen.


