# Week 28

In the developed world, we need policies that reduce the inequality at
the top. It is sometimes said these are very difficult policies to
devise. I’m not sure that’s true. What we’re really talking about is a
degree of redistribution similar to that experienced in the decades
after the Second World War, combined with policies that prevent the
international rich person’s sport of hiding assets from taxation. This
was one of the focuses of Thomas Piketty’s Capital, and with good
reason. I mentioned earlier that assets and liabilities always balance
– that’s the way they are designed, as accounting equalities. But when
we come to global wealth, this isn’t true. Studies of the global
balance sheet consistently show more liabilities than assets. The only
way that would make sense is if the world were in debt to some
external agency, such as Venusians or the Emperor Palpatine. Since it
isn’t, a simple question arises: where’s all the fucking money?
Piketty’s student Gabriel Zucman wrote a powerful book, The Hidden
Wealth of Nations (2015), which supplies the answer: it’s hidden by
rich people in tax havens. According to calculations that Zucman
himself says are conservative, the missing money amounts to $8.7
trillion, a significant fraction of all planetary wealth. It is as if,
when it comes to the question of paying their taxes, the rich have
seceded from the rest of humanity [..]

Effective legal instruments to prevent offshore tax evasion are
incredibly simple and could be enacted overnight, as the United States
has just shown with its crackdown on oligarchs linked to Putin’s
regime. All you have to do is make it illegal for banks to enact
transactions with territories that don’t comply with rules on tax
transparency. That closes them down instantly.

There

---

Michael Hudson

[From The Bubble and Beyond, 2012]

Much like in a radioactive decay process, we are passing through the
short-lived and unstable phases of a Bubble Economy and casino
capitalism that now threaten to settle into leaden austerity and debt
deflation.

This situation confronts society with a choice: either to write down
debts to a level that can be paid (or indeed, to write them off with a
Clean Slate), or to permit creditors to foreclose, concentrating
property in their own hands (including whatever assets are in the
public domain to be privatized) and imposing a combination of
financial and fiscal austerity on the population. This scenario will
produce a shrinking debt-ridden and tax-ridden economy.

The latter is the path that the Western nations are pursuing today. It
is the opposite path from that which classical economists advocated
and which Progressive Era writers expected. Their optimistic focus on
technological potential was thwarted by the political stratagems of
the vested rentier interests fighting back against the classical idea
of free markets and economic reforms to free industrial capitalism
from the legacy of medieval and even ancient privileges and
essentially corrosive, antisocial behavior.

This is not a natural or inevitable form of evolution. It is a detour
from the kind of economy and indeed free market that classical
economists sought to create. With roots in the 13th-century Schoolmen
discussing Just Price, the labor theory of value was refined as a tool
to isolate economic rent as that element of price that had no
counterpart in actual or necessary costs of production. Banking
charges, monopoly rent and land rent were the three types of economic
rent analyzed in this long classical tradition. These rentier charges
were seen as unnecessary and exploitative special privileges carried
over from the military conquests that shaped medieval Europe. A free
market was defined as one free of such overhead [..]

Chapter 1 [..] describes the long line of analysis that has recognized
that there are many ways to structure financial markets — productive
rather than parasitic ways. [.. T]his paper describes the tradition of
steering banking systems to finance industrial capital formation with
productive credit. [..]

I was unable to convince the attendees at the Norwegian meeting to
include the financial dimension of industrial reform in their canon,
so this paper is published here for the first time. I had no greater
success in getting commercial publishers to accept the history of
banking and finance that I was writing. [...]

Academically, I ran into the fact that the long tradition
distinguishing between productive and unproductive credit and indeed
the role of debt has been excluded from the economics curriculum. The
anticlassical school has replaced Progressive Era financial analysis
with a happy-face view in which finance only adds to economic activity
by providing credit, never corrodes it with debt — as if one party’s
credit were not another’s debt!

Yes

---

Comment

They loaded Toy's R Us with debt, they destroyed it

No

TrU was in a bad condition in 2004, an equity firm did a leveraged
buyout, then put that debt on their books. So it was as-if Toy's R
Us went to the bank itself, and took that debt, put it on their own
books. They could not, at the time, apparently, so in a way Bain used
its credit-worthiness to take credit for TrU. From their POV this was
a buy-low sell-high menauver. Ultimately TrU went under but it could
have gone under years ago.

It is sad, of course, TrU had nice stores, kids loved going around in
them.. but things change.. I'd like  to see disco balls and perm hair
making a comeback. Will it happen? Probably not.

---

"I still have issues with the baker case.. why could the baker not
serve the gay couple?"

Here is a good analogy

Imagine you are a Jew. Would you go to a baker who you suspect is a neo-Nazi?

Peter Schiff  makes the point well. Use some common sense; why go to a
baker, force him to serve you...? U know he'll shit in there, do all
kinds of funky stuff to your cake if you do that. So stay away. C'mon.

<a name="israeltr"/>

Isaac Asimov

[From It's Been A Good Life] About 600 C.E., a Turkish tribe, the
Khazars, lived in what is now southern Russia. They established an
empire that reached its peak about 750 C.E., [and] about that time,
the Khazars adopted Judaism as the stat religion, [probably] to keep
from falling under the influence of either the Byzantine Christians or
the Arab Moslems, who were busily engaged in the first part of their
centuries-long duel.

After 965, the Khazars were through as an organized power, but Judaism
may have remained, and it may well be that many East European Jews are
descended from Khazars and the people they ruled. I may be one of
them.

Ha Ha

So Jews (in this region) chose their religion for *strategic reasons*?
*For convenience*?

They were not that *into it*?

That is really funny. What does that say about the ultra-conservative
Jews today in Israel whose make-up contains a good amount of people
from the Eastern Europe I am sure.

The TR connection is interesting too... for me.

A while ago I saw a genetic lineage paper, it said my peeps are
genetically connected mostly to Brits and Fins in Europe.. It doesn't
matter much of course, culture matters more and that has everything to
do with the land, Anatolia, less to do with some distant jackasses who
came in God knows when, whose effect was diluted over there years. But
I never forgot it..  I subconsciously look for similarities sometimes,
and I find it, but I am sure it is a biased look, simple amusement in
this case.

With Israelis though, there are boat load of similarities, nothing
amusing there. I mean, the way they treat Palestinians are not that
dissimilar from the way my tiggers treat the Kurds... Or treated
Armenians - if not at individual level, certainly at state level.

---

[From Listen, Liberal, on how the Dems' shift to professional class
started] Then Frederick Dutton, Democratic Party power broker [..]
identified workers, the core of the New Deal coalition, as “the
principal group arrayed against the forces of change.” They were
actually, to a certain degree, the enemy. [..]“In the 1930s, the
blue-collar group was in the forefront,” Dutton recalled. “Now it is
the white-collar sector.” Specifically: “the college-educated group.”
That was who mattered in the future-altering present of 1971.

Put yourself in Dutton’s place, and you can perhaps understand where
he was coming from. In the Sixties, labor unions seemed like big,
unresponsive, white-dominated organizations that were far closer to
the comfortable and the powerful than they were to the
discontented. Changing Sources of Power appeared shortly after a
disturbing presidential run by Alabama governor George Wallace, an
arch-segregationist whose appeal was then thought to be greatest among
working-class whites. The culture in those years was saturated with
depictions of blue-collar bigots doing scary things like shooting the
main characters in Easy Rider and rioting in support of the Vietnam
War. Everyone back then knew what reactionary clods FDR’s old
constituents had become; just look at All in the Family [..]

Although Dutton surely didn’t intend for matters to unfold this way,
his reverence for the professional class and his contempt for the
“legatees of the New Deal” opened the way for something truly
unfortunate: the erasure of economic egalitarianism from American
politics [..]

Democratic leaders decided to reorient the party after 1968 not
because this was necessary for survival but because they distrusted
their main constituency and had started to lust after a new and more
sophisticated one [..]

The different schools of Democratic Party reform that I have briefly
described here are usually regarded as separate if not mutually
despising tendencies. Frederick Dutton and his fellow worshippers at
the shrine of enlightened youth were part of what is called the “New
Politics” persuasion; among other things, they were open to cultural
radicalism and strongly opposed the Vietnam War. The Democratic
Leadership Council, on the other hand, were a faction of
hippie-punching white Southerners who loved free markets and who
ultimately discredited themselves many years later by whooping it up
for the Iraq War.

These factions appeared to be opponents, and yet there was a
persistent habit of thought that united them: regardless of what it
was they were demanding, they all agreed that what stood in their way
was the legacy of the New Deal—the Democratic Party’s commitment to
equality for working people. That was what had to end.

Here is where our story takes its remarkable turn: slowly but
relentlessly, these different loser reform traditions came together,
and as they did, the Democratic Party became a success. Bad ideas plus
bad ideas turned out, in this case, to yield electoral victory.

The exact point where these trajectories intersected was occupied by
one Bill Clinton, governor of Arkansas, a Rhodes Scholar and a
McGovern campaign worker who had grown up to become the chairman of
the DLC. He led the idealistic Sixties generation and he warred with
the teachers’ union; he smoked dope and he never got high; he savored
Fleetwood Mac and he got tough with welfare mothers. Here was the
one-man synthesis of the grubby dialectic I have been describing, and
he arrived in Washington to fulfill the sordid destiny of his class
like Lenin arriving at the Finland Station.

Ha ha

A lot of forces seem to have arrayed themselves behind these so-called
"new Democrats", who, for some reason developed a distaste for the
unions (they supported the Vietnam War), didn't want to be restricted
by New Deal politics wanted to rock'n roll, be hip, try to exude
charisma by lip biting, second-rate Robert Redford impressions, not
come across as working class. There is a parallel here with the
professionalism displayed on Star Trek TNG, and the repeated "Picard
face-palm" meme that goes around everytime libs are upset about
something, and, dare I say some connections to the Third Wave
systemology expounded upon at length here. The last two connections
are mostly superflous however - Star Trek TNG takes place in a world
without money, Toffler was not pro-globalization the way these poor
lost souls are, constantly warning about the down-side of new tech,
and  about new social contracts to make it work. The DLC seem to have
created a Frankenstein by combining unwanted / mismatched parts of
all, and sell it through shoddy charisma that could only work in a
post-Berlin Wall environment when everyone was confused about
everything.

---
