# Solar Ammonia

[Link](http://www.ammoniaenergy.org/yaras-solar-ammonia-plant-a-key-step/)

Yara’s Australian unit announced plans to build a pilot plant to
produce ammonia using solar power. This is a key step in Australia’s
efforts to develop its economy around clean energy exports, and could
lead to a new system of global trade in which renewable ammonia is an
energy commodity.

Demonstration plant: cost-competitive electrolyzers, solar ammonia In
March 2017, International Energy Agency Senior Analyst Cedric
Philibert reached several striking conclusions in an essay on the
economics of producing hydrogen from renewably generated
electricity. First, industry may have already reached an inflection
point where the unsubsidized cost of producing renewable hydrogen via
electrolysis in certain geographies can compete with the cost of
producing hydrogen via steam methane reforming. Second, the
geographies where this could apply are those where producers can draw
on multiple renewable sources – for example, wind and photovoltaics –
so that they can obtain electricity at a low price and achieve high
utilization of their plant capacity. Third, given the fact that many
desirable production locations are remote from end-use markets,
ammonia could be employed as a well-proven, low-cost option for
linking producer and customer. Finally, if ammonia were to be employed
not just as a fertilizer but as an energy carrier, a whole new system
of global trade in renewable energy could emerge.

In one potential trade pairing, officials are examining options for
meeting Japanese energy needs with Australian renewable
resources. Australia is already one of Japan’s leading suppliers of
coal and natural gas. Agencies such as the Australian Renewable Energy
Agency (ARENA) made it clear during the year that the country intends
to build on this position.  In another potential trade pairing, the
CEO of Siemens Pacific wrote of plans to export Australian solar
ammonia to Germany, describing “projects in discussion right now” to
develop a 10,000 km2 solar field in the Australian desert that would
generate 500 GW. This would be enough to produce 1 million tons of
ammonia per day, roughly twice today’s total global production
capacity, for export as a carbon-free energy commodity.

These moves set the stage for Yara’s September 2017 unveiling of plans
for a “solar ammonia” demonstration near its plant in Pilbara in
Western Australia. The company’s production concept appears to
dovetail with Nel Hydrogen’s recent moves toward large-scale
deployment of electrolyzers (cited by Philibert in his essay) with
associated reductions in capital cost burden. Yara sees the potential
of solar ammonia unfolding across several stages, from reduction of
the company’s own carbon footprint to entrée of green ammonia into
global energy markets.

[Cédric Philibert](https://www.iea.org/newsroom/news/2017/april/producing-industrial-hydrogen-from-renewable-energy.html) Senior Energy Analyst

The vast majority of this industrial hydrogen is produced from coal
gasification or steam methane reforming (SMR), both of which need a
lot of energy and generate significant carbon dioxide emissions. A
much smaller proportion of hydrogen is produced via electrolysis of
water, which can be a far more sustainable method if the electricity
is produced from renewable sources.

Indeed, producing hydrogen via renewable energy is not a new
idea. Until the 1960s, hydrogen from hydropower-based electrolysis in
Norway was used to make ammonia – a key ingredient for agricultural
fertilizers. But low gas prices and the emergence of SMR meant this
technology became less fashionable during an era when carbon emissions
were not a consideration.

But with increasingly lower renewable costs, renewables-based hydrogen
production could once again be competitive with SMR. For example,
regions with abundant hydropower, or hydropower and geothermal
resources such as Iceland or Norway, are possible choices for siting
electrolyzers. Newly built wind farms in Morocco, and solar plants in
Dubai and Chile, where electricity costs are around $30/MWh, could
also be competitive with SMR paired with carbon capture and storage.

Price is not the only consideration however. To be competitive, the
electroylzers would have to have relatively high utilization factors –
that is, they would have to run for several thousand hours per year.

But under the right conditions, producing industrial hydrogen in this
fashion could have massive consequences for the sustainability of one
industry in particular – agriculture. About half of industrial
hydrogen is used in ammonia production. Ammonia production alone is
responsible for about 360 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year,
or about 1% of the world’s total emissions. By 2050, we expect that
the consumption of ammonia will increase by around 60%.

Places that meet these two conditions – low prices and a high
utilization factor – could be found in sunny, windy regions with the
right combination of solar plants and wind farms. Based on extensive
wind and solar geospatial data, preliminary analyses reveal a number
of large areas with this combination.

Some of the areas with the best resources, in China and in the US, are
far from fertilizer demand centres but both electricity and ammonia
could be transported. Other places, such as Western Australia, Western
Sahara, the horn of Africa or Patagonia to name some, may also be very
far from demand but they offer large sparsely-populated areas and have
access to oceans. In that case, ammonia plants would likely be sited
directly next to the electrolysers.

[Link](http://www.ammoniaenergy.org/development-of-direct-ammonia-fuel-cells/)

Perhaps this year’s biggest advance in this busy arena came from
Japan, where researchers at Kyoto University achieved “the world’s
largest power generation output of an NH3 fuel cell,” with efficiency
in excess of 50% for 1,000 hours of continuous operation – the
duration might be the most impressive aspect here.

According to Grigorii Soloveichik, program manager of REFUEL: “Ammonia
fuel cell technology has the potential to be widely used in long term
energy storage and the transportation sector (UAVs, range extenders,
APUs). Fuel cells can convert ammonia, which can be easily stored in
liquid form, to electricity with efficiencies higher than that using
internal combustion engines.

[Link](http://www.ammoniaenergy.org/man-energy-solutions-an-ammonia-engine-for-the-maritime-sector/)

In June 2018, MAN Diesel & Turbo rebranded itself MAN Energy
Solutions, reflecting the maritime engine market leader’s “strategic
and technological transformation” towards sustainability. The company
was “taking a stand for the Paris Climate Agreement and the global
pursuit of a carbon-neutral economy.” According to Uwe Lauber,
Chairman of the Board, “our activities have a significant impact on
the global economy. In shipping, for example, we move more than half
of the global stream of goods … [and] the path to decarbonising the
maritime economy starts with fuel decarbonisation, especially in
container shipping.”

This week, the company took a significant step towards realizing its
vision, disclosing that it is “pressing ahead with developing … an
ammonia-fuelled engine.” This builds on the technology development
pathway that MAN ES presented at the NH3 Energy+ Topical Conference at
Pittsburgh in October 2018. The budget and timeline are set: the €5
million (USD$5.7 million) project will last two to three years and, if
the shipowners decide to deploy the finished product, “the first
ammonia engine could then be in operation by early 2022.”

---

All great news. So you could convert ammonia into hydrogen, or use
ammonia in fuel-cells, or use it directly as fuel! Don't try to
"reform"
[batteries](https://mobile.twitter.com/business/status/1089744970578309120)
for BEVs. That's a fool's errand. We need to respect the
chemistry. Learn to love the molecules.

