# Week 8

News

Google is preparing to offer its own ride-hailing service [..]

Competition is a good thing

---

Link

The effects of the autonomous car movement will be
staggering. PricewaterhouseCoopers predicts that the number of
vehicles on the road will be reduced by 99%, estimating that the fleet
will fall from 245 million to just 2.4 million vehicles.

Disruptive innovation does not take kindly to entrenched competitors –
like Blockbuster, Barnes and Noble, Polaroid, and dozens more like
them, it is unlikely that major automakers like General Motors, Ford,
and Toyota will survive the leap [..]

Ancillary industries such as the $198 billion automobile insurance
market, $98 billion automotive finance market, $100 billion parking
industry, and the $300 billion automotive aftermarket will collapse as
demand for their services evaporates. We will see the obsolescence of
rental car companies, public transportation systems, and, good
riddance, parking and speeding tickets. But we will see the
transformation of far more than just consumer transportation:
self-driving semis, buses, earth movers, and delivery trucks will
obviate the need for professional drivers and the support industries
that surround them.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics lists that 884,000 people are employed
in motor vehicles and parts manufacturing, and an additional 3.02
million in the dealer and maintenance network. Truck, bus, delivery,
and taxi drivers account for nearly 6 million professional driving
jobs. Virtually all of these 10 million jobs will be eliminated within
10-15 years, and this list is by no means exhaustive.

Damn

---

Alexis Tsipras

My party, and I personally, disagreed fiercely with the May 2010 loan
agreement not because you, the citizens of Germany, did not give us
enough money but because you gave us much, much more than you should
have and our government accepted far, far more than it had a right to
[..]

[L]et me be frank: Greece's debt is currently unsustainable and will
never be serviced, especially while Greece is being subjected to
continuous fiscal waterboarding [...]

Soo

.. Tsipras is saying instead of repaying some old debt with new debt
and trying to repay both, erase some of our old debts? That's what it
all comes down at the end right? Who is paying when, or not paying.

---

US Department of Labor

Unemployment is at 5.6%

Untrue

---

Gallup

Gallup defines a good job as 30+ hours per week for an organization
that provides a regular paycheck. Right now, the U.S. is delivering at
a staggeringly low rate of 44%, which is the number of full-time jobs
as a percent of the adult population, 18 years and older.

Right

This page here shows the "true" unemployment rate, updated daily.

---

News

CIA fears enemy will gain control of the weather

Errr

Dude can you guys focus on something else.. I mean, like go topple a
foreign leader or something..?  Where does this is stupid shit come
from?

---

Wired

There’s been a lot of fear about the future of artificial
intelligence. [Some] worry that AI-powered computers might one day
become uncontrollable super-intelligent demons [..] But Baidu chief
scientist Andrew Ng—one of the world’s best-known AI researchers and a
guy who’s building out what is likely one of the world’s largest
applied AI projects—says we really ought to worry more about robot
truck drivers than the Terminator.

Yes

---

NPR

We mapped the most common job in every state

I would definitely forget about the Terminator now

---

Bill Gates

Why aren't more ppl afraid of [AI calamity]?

I dont know, ask your own research chief

Microsoft Research Chief

Out of control AI will not kill us

Dude

You totally disagreed with your ex-CEO there... Like, not cool. 

---

George Orwell

If she had not been aided by Britain and America, Russia would have
been defeated by Germany [during WWII]

Orwell knows

Maybe during one of their WWII "parades", Russian leaders should
salute their saviors, in the direction of the West. Because if it
wasn't for the rest of the Europe and US, it seems that their ass
would have been grass.

---

Question

What do you think about Internet of Things?

Lukewarm

I cant see much reason to get excited about it. Plus exposing
household items to outside can pose a security risk; it is enough
government agencies of rouge states try to get into ordinary people's
accounts, now potentially they can hack into your home..? Imagine the
scenario - in your kitchen they knock you out with the refigrator
door, turn on your oven, get your roomba to throw your ass on the
grill. That would suck.

Home devices being able to connect to eachother, locally, can be good
of course; but still, meh.

---

Yann LeCun

[LeCun is a Deep Learning expert] Some aspects of our models are
inspired by neuroscience, but many components are not at all inspired
by neuroscience, and instead come from theory, intuition, or empirical
exploration. Our models do not aspire to be models of the brain, and
we don’t make claims of neural relevance [..]  I’m very careful not to
use words that could lead to hype. Because there is a huge amount of
hype in this area. Which is very dangerous [..] In a cargo cult, you
reproduce the appearance of the machine without understanding the
principles behind the machine. You build radio stations out of straw
[..]

The equivalent in AI is to try to copy every detail that we know of
about how neurons and synapses work, and then turn on a gigantic
simulation of a large neural network inside a supercomputer, and hope
that AI will emerge. That’s cargo cult AI. There are very serious
people who get a huge amount of money who basically—and of course I’m
sort of simplifying here—are pretty close to believing this [..].

I do believe that some of the claims by the IBM group have gone a bit
too far and were easily misinterpreted. Some of their announcements
look impressive on the surface, but aren’t actually implementing
anything useful. Before the True North project, the group used an IBM
supercomputer to “simulate a rat-scale brain.” But it was just a
random network of neurons that did nothing useful except burn cycles. 
"If you build a convolutional net chip [instead] . . . it can go into
a lot of devices right away. IBM built the wrong thing. They built
something that we can’t do anything useful with.”

The sad thing about the True North chip is that it could have been
useful if it had not tried to stick too close to biology and not
implemented “spiking integrate-and-fire neurons.” Building a chip is
very expensive. So in my opinion—and I used to be a chip designer—you
should build a chip only when you’re pretty damn sure it can do
something useful [..].

I’m going to get a lot of heat for this, but basically a big chunk of
the Human Brain Project in Europe is based on the idea that we should
build chips that reproduce the functioning of neurons as closely as
possible, and then use them to build a gigantic computer, and somehow
when we turn it on with some learning rule, AI will emerge. I think
it’s nuts. Now, what I just said is a caricature of the Human Brain
Project, to be sure. And I don’t want to include in my criticism
everyone who is involved in the project. A lot of participants are
involved simply because it’s a very good source of funding that they
can’t afford to pass up.

Yes

I had my doubts on HBP as well; besides the cargo cult aspect, I
believe whichever agency is behind this is probably thinking along the
same lines of Large Hadron Collider, that is, they are equating 
high-energy physics with artificial intelligence (incorrect in this
case as well) and wanted to go big. AI is not physics. With LHC there
was a clear objective, utilizing methods that are [mostly] understood,
all there was left to do is building the BFC - the big f-king
collider. The basis of HBP is not entirely understood. Going big in
this case would not help IMHO.

---

Link

Saudi Muslim cleric claims the Earth is 'stationary' and the sun
rotates around it

The man is deranged

Saudi ruling elite themselves go to best schools in the world, then
they turn around and push this guy on the populace?

Robert Green 

33 Strategies of War

Muslims then marched through the mountain valleys upon Mecca. Muhammad
divided his force into four columns....  Muhammad gave strict orders
that no violence was to be used. His own tent was pitched on high
ground immediately overlooking the town. Eight years before, he had
fled from Mecca under cover of darkness, and lain hidden three days in
a cave on Mount Thor, which from his tent he could now see rising
beyond the city. Now ten thousand warriors were ready to obey his
least command and his native town lay helpless at his feet.  After a
brief rest, he [..] entered the town [..]. Muhammad [..] was not
vindictive. A general amnesty was proclaimed, from which less than a
dozen persons were excluded, only four being actually
executed. Ikrima, the son of Abu Jahal, escaped to the Yemen, but his
wife appealed to the Apostle, who agreed to forgive him.... The Muslim
occupation of Mecca was thus virtually bloodless. The fiery Khalid ibn
al Waleed killed a few people at the southern gate and was sharply
reprimanded by Muhammad for doing so. Although the Apostle had himself
been persecuted in the city and although many of his bitterest
opponents were still living there, he won all hearts by his clemency
on his day of triumph. Such generosity [..] was particularly
remarkable among Arabs, a race to whom revenge has always been dear.

There

---

The Atlantic

What [does] ISIS really want? ISIS is no mere collection of
psychopaths. It is a religious group with carefully considered beliefs
[..]

They are psychopaths 

Does the description above, about Mohammed, in any shape or form,
resemble what ISIS is doing today?

There can be a big difference between what a founder of a movement
intended to create, and what institutions do later on, in their
name. Would Jesus persecute Galileo for claiming all heavenly bodies
did not revolve around Earth? He would not, but the Catholic Church
did. A scientist in Istanbul, Hazerfan, constructed wings and managed
to fly / glide for over 3 kilometers, during the 17th century. Would
Mohammed persecute him for inventing something? He would not. But the
Ottoman dipshit calling himself sultan and caliph did. ISIS is simply
the continuation of this defunct culture, it is nothing new, simply a
collection of ignorant, genocidal beliefs that need to be battled
with. That's it.

---

Comment

[Paraphrasing] Maybe [the Greek finance minister] Varoufakis should
not act like a game theorist so he can do a better job during his
talks with EU ministers.

Funny

.. but this comment is based on a widely held assumption that  Game
Theory is all about "one-up'ing the other guy". This is an incorrect
view of the theory. A lot of GT deals with how cooperation can emerge
out of situations; the math is about optimality, at whatever,
whichever point it may be.

---

Comment

Why is [the German finance minister] Schauble such an hard-ass? Why
does he want to keep Greeks in Euro and punish them? 

He supported Grexit actually

.. when the crisis started, but he didn't get his way.

---
  
An economist

Excessive free marketism caused the 2008 recession.

No it didn't 

Guy is still mumbling this trash believing it's real. Here are a few
key points about the existing "global" economic system, choices and
pillars it runs on.

1) Create a central bank which does central things trying to "guide" the economy. 

2) Don't f**k with the banks

3) China is world's manufacturer

None of the items above have anything to do with the free market
philosophy. #1: Central bank, with its "central" design is the very
antithesis of a free-market institution. It came into being during the
modern era, and it tries to influence the market through a backdoor.
#2: we all know banks have a special status in the economy. If
Wal-mart were to go bankrupt tomorrow, it would be chalked to bad
management, and people would simply watch. If equally sized banks on
the other hand, were to go under, government would step in and save
them in a second. Because they are special. #3: US / West (with
aggreement from China of course) made a strategic choice to turn China
into a manufacturing base. Why? Decision makers wanted to see
capitalism in China, turning foe into a potential friend (if systems
are more alike, there can be more friendship, etc). Also, China's
cheap labor could be guaranteed to stay cheap for a while due to the
presence of an opressive government.

These are the pillars. Here is what happened before 2008.

\#1, central bank pushed the interest rates down, and kept it there for
too long. A non-free market actor, doing a non-free market thing,
causing a mess in the process.

#2: Politicians f***d with the banks by repealing Glass-Seagall.

\#3, China, which in no shape or form was "needed" as a manufacturing
powerhouse (because even during the 80/90s countries could automate
instead of sending production to China) generated huge surpluses, that
money needed somewhere to go, it coult stay in its home country (no
mature financial infrastructure) so it came to US. Boat loads of
investment blew through all checks and balances. This was the point
when financial institutions started giving loans to dead people, or
homeless and wrapping the shit up under AAA rating. Free market?


Right...

Oh and there is a 4th item actually. 

\#4: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

---

Link

Geoengineering comprises technologies designed to counteract
human-caused climate change: towering “carbon scrubbers” that would
suck carbon dioxide from the atmosphere [and clean it].

It could work

I remember hearing once if the Earth was an orange, its atmosphere
would be, get this, not its peel, but the thin color film on the peel
of the orange. Like wow dude, I totally did not know that! So we dont
have much of this thing called air. How much do we have exactly? It is
estimated at  4.2 billion cubic kilometers, if you take a cubic root
(to imagine one side of an imaginery cube) it is 1613.42 km. We have a
cube whose one side is 1613.42 km and some machine needs to clean the
contents of this cube. Maybe?

---

Paul Graham

American technology companies want the government to make immigration
easier because they say they can't find enough programmers in the
US. Anti-immigration people say that instead of letting foreigners
take these jobs, we should train more Americans to be
programmers. Who's right?

The technology companies are right. What the anti-immigration people
don't understand is that there is a huge variation in ability between
competent programmers and exceptional ones, and while you can train
people to be competent, you can't train them to be
exceptional. Exceptional programmers have an aptitude for and interest
in programming that is not merely the product of training.

The US has less than 5% of the world's population. Which means if the
qualities that make someone a great programmer are evenly distributed,
95% of great programmers are born outside the US [..].

I asked the CEO of a startup with about 70 programmers how many more
he'd hire if he could get all the great programmers he wanted. He said
"We'd hire 30 tomorrow morning." And this is one of the hot startups
that always win recruiting battles. It's the same all over Silicon
Valley. Startups are that constrained for talent.

Right

The new economy is all about talent whose output can be scaled to
billions. No wonder there is such high unemployment.

---

A character in a novel

Those Jesuits can teach

Yes they can

They say Jesuits teach well, especially how to research, gather
information, etc.  The character making this comment is from a Tom
Clancy book, I believe it was his Jack Ryan. Clancy himself apparently
was educated by Jesuits too. And yes, the man could do research.

But let's not forget how and when the Jesuits were created; They came
into being during Renaissance, as a response to Renaissance. Basically
the Catholic Church was being slapped around pretty badly during this
era by the new way of thinking, they figured they had to "win back the
minds", had to keep up, and this is when Jesuits were born. The new
pope BTW happens to be a Jesuit now. And that's good. The man is
trying to fix some things, I hope he succeeds.

---

Gawker

In this fraught American media landscape, who can be trusted? Brian
Williams is a faker, and Bill O'Reilly is too [really?]. The
credibility of our most cherished cultural lodestars is crumbling
before our eyes, and the mighty haven't stopped falling. That's right:
Xzibit is a fraud, and Pimp My Ride was insane bullshit.

What is going on?

The paint is coming off on a lot of stuff all of a sudden. 

---

Gallup CEO

Jim Clifton, the CEO of Gallup, has backtracked on claims he publicly
made about the job numbers [..] as being a “big lie,” saying he was
concerned that his statement might cause him to “suddenly disappear”
due to foul play.

Ha ha

---

NY Times

As a student activist for the Communist Party, Mr. Tsipras learned
that the way to get things done was by confronting authority while
making maximal demands [..]

Mmmm

Financial Times

[D]uring the late 1990s student protests [in Greece]: Many of the
students, particularly on the leftist fringes, were pushing for a
radical overhaul of the country’s education system. “We didn’t want
exams, we didn’t want grades, we wanted an open school,” recalls
Matthaios Tsimitakis, an Athens journalist who was one of the student
leaders at the assembly.

But not Mr Tsipras. Despite his leftist credentials, Mr Tsipras urged
only one demand: withdraw the reforms. Although the protests would
grow tense — a teacher was killed in clashes between rival groups in
January 1991 — Mr Tsipras, who became one of the main negotiators with
the government, held his line. And, three months after they were
proposed, the government sacked its education minister and withdrew
the reforms. The protests ended.

So he did not make a maximal demand

---

Comment

[Paraphrasing] In movies like The Matrix where humans are enslaved by
artificial intelligence [..]

You had to bring The Matrix into this did you?

Yes, the first movie was pretty standard AI-gone-wild scenario; But if
one looks at the entire trilogy, it ended with AI needing
humans. Right? MII showed "the one" business was all planned by the
machines (Dude! I totally did not get what that Architect guy said
maan), then in MII and MIII the bug in the system grew larger, the
Smiths keps multiplying...? Finall the machines needed Neo to fix the
shit.

Well; it's just a movie anyway.

---

News

Bank of England Governor Mark Carney worries that technology will
disrupt the banking and financial services industry in just the same
way that it has torn apart newspapers, radio and the postal
service. His chief concern is [..] "an Uber-type situation [will take
place]," as he put it at the World Economic Forum in Davos last week.

The news that foreign currency exchange startup TransferWise has
raised $58 million in investment at a valuation of $1 billion proves
that Carney is right to worry: Tech startups — or fintech startups, as
they're called in Europe — are working as fast as they can to turn
traditional banks into the steam-engine manufacturers of the 21st
Century.

Why worry?

---

History

At 1814, Britain invaded Washington D.C.. The soldiers went to the
White House, the president and his wife had fleed already leaving
their lunch on the table. The British soldiers sat down and ate their
lunch.

Ha ha

That is hilarious. I bet there was a tad stiff Brit commander there,
he sat down on the table took a few bites, chewed it really quick, and
then said something like: "It's a bit overcooked I'm afraid". I'd love
to be there to see that scene.

George W. Bush

There's an old saying in Tennessee [..] that says, fool me once, shame
on — shame on you. Fool me — you can't get fooled again.

How did this man's mind work?

It's a complete mystery to me. 

---

Blog

If you are a good calculus teacher, your school comes to depend on you
[..]

Syntax error

What's said above is so obnoxiously beyond intelligible that I dont
even know what to make of it. What the funk does it mean "if you are a
good teacher"; the motivation of that sentence is a complete
non-sense. The good teacher is already there; he or she is
online. There is no if around the concept of availability, presence of
quality; there is only the necessity of building a new system around
this fact, this new abundance. 

---

Miles Kimball

The road ahead [on education] is clear: the potential in each student can be unlocked by combining the power of computers, software, and the internet with the human touch of a teacher-as-coach to motivate that student to work hard at learning. Technology brings several elements to the equation:

Customized lessons adapted to each student’s individual learning style
at a cost that won’t break the bank Lectures from some of the most
talented instructors in the world [..]  The kind of software
motivational tricks that make it so hard for kids to pull away from
video games Flexibility for students to learn at their own pace.


Flexibility is key

.. and so is access. Few decades ago if you want to learn
Multivariable Calculus at MIT, you had to go to MIT. Now you simply
watch lecture videos from OCW. You dont need any bells and whistles on
top of that, really, i.e. digital effects, online quizzing tech
interspersed within that video. The availability of that video (and
being able to store it, for offline viewing) is already
revolutionary. You want to go get coffee during the lecture, hit
pause, and Prof. Denis Auroux will be waiting for you when you come
back. How crazy cool is that?


