# Week 16

Comment

I do not believe in a higher power because you cannot prove the
presence of God is more likely than not, scientifically.

But you can

Let F be the event something appears organized, and G that there is a
creator. Goal is trying to prove the probability `P(G|F) > P(~G|F)`; the
tilde sign means "not", the negation of the event, the | sign means
"given", i.e. `P(A|B)` is probability of A given B, that is, assuming B
happened, what's the likelihood of A. Using the Bayes Theorem,

`P(G|F) = P(F|G)P(G) / P(F)`

`P(~G|F) = P(F|~G)P(~G) / P(F)`

Geeks can notice the trick there; we flipped the probabilities, so we
could start from something we know. Everyone agrees `P(F|G) > P(F|~G)`,
that is, "given" there is a creator, the probability something appears
organized is more likely, than given not. As for the rest, we must
take `P(G) = P(~G)` because that is apriori belief, believing something
from get-go.  If `P(G)` is not equal to `P(~G)` you are a bigot.

Well, then P(F) is the same on both equations, `P(G)` equals to `P(~G)`,
with all else being equal and since `P(F|G) > P(F|~G)`, then we must
conclude `P(G|F) > P(~G|F)`.

Boom.

Given something appears organized, a creator is more likely. Q.E.D. my
brotha.. Whazzup!

---

Question

What does that say about intelligent design?

Nothing

The fact that there is a creator says nothing about how the designer
designs. I write a genetic algorithm that can modifies itself, it goes
after a problem, after many changes it is done, and its final form is
different from the thing I created in the beginning. I wrote the code
so it could evolve, but did nothing afterwards.

And, looking at the poor form we have right now as humans, it is
pretty unlikely that we are designed as we are now. The final form of
the design is pretty stupid and still a work in progress. Evolution is
real.

---

Question

But some scientists argue there is no God, i.e. Richard Dawkins, and
Stephen Hawking.

Yeah but..

Hawking says a lot of things, alien invasion [1], AI gone wild, all
that.. But in general some of the backlash in scientific circles has
to do with the resentment of actions taken by the Catholic Church
throughout its sorry history and its Catholic God which might have
pushed people to go P(~G) > P(G). CC tried to "define" exactly how the
designer designs, and it failed. Thank God.

In the same vain, I also accept there is also a form of courage in the
way atheists say "I don't know for sure, and I will remain in this
non-knowing state until I do know for sure". This can be
commendable. We've only shown the probability is higher for one case
than not, noone can show existence of God anything with probability 1
(100% confidence).

---

Question

But didn't Kant show, logically, both presence and non-presence of God
can be proven? And since he is a luminary..

Forget the luminaries

These "luminaries" did not know math the way we do now. We are in
better shape than they are.

---

Question

What is the purpose of religion then?

Organized religion is mostly a hoax

But the prophets were onto something..

All enlightened religion exists / started out to remind humanity of
its forager instincts.

When we switched to farming, villagers fell into bad habits. We
domesticated plants, but they also domesticated us - see Sapient, and
Why the West Rules by Morris. The village became a Disneyland -
shut-in, isolated, full of gossiping neighbors, imaginery make-belief
totems, where ppl survived even thrived, but also started sacrificing
humans for better harvest. Inheritance, of land (because you would
farm on it) became important, ppl would literally worship the bones of
their ancestors.

Religion is nothing but a few smart people saying "dont worship some
bones you dumb fuck". All the rest is add-ons. Fasting replicates the
day of a hunter-gatherer. He wakes up, eats strong breakfast, hunts,
feasts at the end of the day. Notice how alert you get when you are
hungry. Your eye sight gets better. You hear clearer. It is good to
connect with that part of us because evolution is slow and we still
carry hunter-gatherer instincts.

Continuing the story, farmers became landowners, some became better at
this, they obtained bigger lands, bigger families, this is the start
of inequality. A forager could not become unequal even if they wanted
to. So all religions bring the concept of equality back. Before
religion, sheep fucking farmers grew in size, some became rulers, even
emperors. The concept of empire makes only sense in an agricultural
setting. Only then is there a surplus which can be taxed, and that tax
can be used to raise armies. So empires are a form of mafia, they grab
what they do not have. It is no coincidence Romans, Byzantium,
Ottomans were formed around the lands where farming first started, and
the concept of mafia is still strong in these regions.

Anti-village sentiment is embedded in Islam. Mohammed hated them. Rumi
(a famous Islamic cleric) said "if you spend a day in a village you
won't recover for a month". They found the statiticy of these people
repugnant.

Organized farming started around Hilly Flanks (today's Syria and
Iraq), followed closely by China. The backwardness of culture in these
places is due to farming, not religion.

---

Question

What happened to Jesus?

Romans killed him

Romans were landowners, the sheep loving village-taxers of their
day. Jesus, the free-wheeling forager spirited poor carpenter who
befriended all sorts of wild characters did not play ball. He was
killed. "He had no father" is a sales pitch to battle against the
ancestor-bone-worshipping villagers.

So Romans (Italians), the goat lover mafiosi rulers, killed Jesus (see
Gospel of Thomas for Jesus' true teachings). Then a whole religion
started in his name, they tried to co-opt the religion. The biggest
sales gimmick, propaganda in history is Romans then the Catholic
Church which is their cultural descendant turning Jesus into a
patriarchal figure suitable for bone worshipping - this is today's so
called "convervatives", and blaming Jews for his death.

The dance they had to make to pull that off is one of the most
hysterical one in history - they killed Jesus, and they said "he
didn't actually die" (because if he did, it would then be their
fault). Then they said he died but Jews killed him anyway, so it's not
their fault but the Jews' (turning an entire ethnicity of peoples into
Godkillers, which would work to their detriment many years later in
Germany). But then they also said he didn't actually die, he couldn't
really die, because he was son of God (they turned around that
fatherless thing and exploited it), through this step they could turn
Jesus into a patriarchal figure and now 100% ready for
bone-worshipping, something peasants could deify. Catholic Church
swooped right in, providing the official interface to this deity,
which could be outsourced to the proper Roman ceasar if he paid the
right price. Fascinating eh?

---

Question

But your blog is about the 3rd Wave.. What wave is this about?

Sadly this is pre-wave

When I started this blog I thought I'd be banging all day about the
transition between second and third waves. I thought I'd have such an
easy time riding on Toffler's analysis, just refer to random pages in
his book and I'd be done. I found out there are still huge issues
around 1st wave (farming) and what came before it, I guess "zeroth
wave", so here I am talking about farmers and foragers. I am quite
shocked by this development.

---

Question

But dealing with inequality etc sounds like the bailiwick of the left.

Yes

Some say "the West invented no religion, the Middle East invented no
political ideology". This sounds like a smart little comment until you
realize religion is politics of the ancient times. The moment you say
"I demand equality", "I do not worship some fucking bones / elders",
you are engaged in politics. The fact that message was carried by the
left in the West, Moses / Jesus / Mohammed in the East really makes no
difference.

---

Question

But isn't the Roman / Han Empire (China) mystical?

No

These people are descendants of hemmed-in, static, non-sea-fearing
cultures. Both are deeply wedded to the region they sprung from and
did not turn into explorers, so they eventually stagnated and
collapsed. Their culture is truly backward (except their cuisines,
sitting on your ass for thousands of years will do that to you), and
inward looking, gossipy. The "closeness" and "warmness" you feel in
these lands is nothing but a habit formed for having people around you
all the time, due to farming. You tend to a patch of land, you have to
be around it and others near it all the time, you become "neurotic",
you befriend sheep, goats int he process.. It's really a bad
life. Bummer.

All religion rose up against the rulers of these people. Moses against
the pharaoh (the OG -original gangsta-), Jesus against Rome, Mohammed
against Mecca.

Note: There is nothing "mystical" about the pyramids, use people as
slaves for 30 years, you can build a pyramid. These days we build
skyscrapers in a few years which are far better.

---

Question

You said neurotic, but don't they call Jews in US that?

Mistake

If they want to use the "right stereotype" on the right ethnic group,
they should be using the term "neurotic Italian". All the supposed
neuroticism of a "stereotypical Jew" is actually Mediterranean (one of
the first areas of organized farming, and mafia), so the term should
stick on them. In the Italian case it is more extroverted, but it is
still neurotic. Robert de Nero has been playing such a "neurotic
Italian" his entire life on the big screen.

---

Question

Then royalty is tied to land and agriculture.

Of course

The royal family of England is known as "the landed gentry" for
example. In agrarian times families grew and grew, some dominate
others, and they become "royalty". They look down on others. Pay
attention to Turkland, Italy - these places still have deep cultural
resonance with the issue of class. Industrializing did not seem to
help them - industrial modernity through its teachers, bureucrats
created a new class of "royalty".

Slavery (*very* common in Rome) is an agricultural concept, it has
nothing to do with race per se, see the American South. The only
racial thing there was the white majority farmers preferred blacks
because they would stand out (so could not run away) in a white
society, plus Africa was on one of the trade routes for US.

---

Question

How similar are Romans, Byzantium, Ottomans.

One and the same

In fact some historians label them (rightfully) as Rome 1, Rome 2 and
Rome 3.

---

Question

Why was the agrarian era the first time when rich could richer?
Couldn't foragers be rich?

No

[From another Morris book, *Foragers, Farmers, and Fossil Fuels*] "There
is an obvious reason why wealth inequality is so low among foragers:
foraging usually requires people to move around constantly. This can
make the accumulation of material wealth not only difficult but also
rather pointless. On the one hand, dragging material possessions
around the countryside makes hunting and gathering much harder; on the
other, the attraction of possessions declines if you have to abandon
them every few weeks. Foraging as a system of energy capture puts
strict practical limits on the accumulation of wealth.

In almost all foraging societies, these practical constraints on
wealth accumulation are reinforced by a strong sense that material
hierarchy is morally wrong. In most societies, the value of sharing is
drummed into children early on [..]

Refusing to share the good things that come your way is a forager
deadly sin, every bit as bad as being an upstart. In fact, greed and
upstartism seem to merge in forager thought, as [..] quoted earlier
revealed when he said that a successful young hunter “comes to think
of himself as a chief or a big man.” Selfish foragers come under
intense pressure to give goods away, which some anthropologists call
“demand sharing” or even “tolerated scrounging/theft".

I guess with the rise of the non-ownership, sharing economy fueled by
new tech, this part of forager culture is coming back too.

---

Question

But who defines what the primary ideological divisions are?

It is ancient

First ideological division was between "landed interests" and the
foragers. The latter fought through religions (Moses, Jesus,
Mohammed), then through modern left, the former tries to co-opt
religions (Catholicism, Ottoman Caliphate), tries to push for "law and
order" (i.e. jail anyone who is not like us). Private sphere
expansion, more and more property belonging to someone, is their
thing. They are all about that patch of land, a fence around it, they
put a goat on it, and they go to work - "what my name ??!! what's my
name....?!".. Beeeeee..

BTW, the AR-15 BTW is a defensive weapon, or most see it that way,
which is used conciously or subconciously to "defend their land". It
is a favorite by rednecks in the south - this is no coincidence. The
fact that they're used for "assault" as of late is the biggest irony
here.

---

Morris, WTWRFN

Archaeologists often suffer from an affliction that I like to call
Egypt envy. No matter where we dig or what we dig up, we always
suspect we would find better things if we were digging in Egypt. So it
is a relief to know that Egypt envy affects people in other walks of
life too. In 1995 State Councillor Song Jian, one of China’s top
scientific administrators, made an official visit to Egypt. He was not
happy when archaeologists told him that its antiquities were older
than China’s, so on returning to Beijing he launched the Three
Dynasties Chronology Project to look into the matter. Four years and
$2 million later, it announced its findings: Egypt’s antiquities
really are older than China’s.

Ha Ha

What I don't get is why people would want to have "more" history
because more in this context almost always means "agrarian more" which
means more goatfucking in your past. Look at Egypt, don't these people
suffer greatly from their repugnant past? Their culture is a piece of
shit because they have too much history. Why do you want more of that?
(in terms of science more knowledge is good of course, but the length
of history is nothing to get excited about).

---

Question

Is feminism a good thing?

Depends

Empowerment needs to be compatible for today's mode of
production. Patriarchy is rooted in the bossy, landowner, farmer male,
than becoming a bossy landowner female is just another set of
wrongs. Goatfucker HQ (with the longest agrarian history) has the
proper vocabulary for it. The landowner is ağa (the boss), there is a
female version of that, called hanımağa (she-boss). A lot of times
"empowerment" in these lands turn into women starting to act like
a hanımağa. Or as the daugter of the ağa (out of reach, asexual, be
married off to an important man). Some women try to adapt such airs
when they think they are being "empowered". I see parallels sometimes
in West. Beware.

---

I don't understand why people do not start with "any sufficiently
advanced (spacefaring) civilization must have developed ways of
organization, collaboration that would preclude them from being
opressors" - a variation of opposable thumbs hypothesis, but for
aliens, instead of immediately drawing parallels to barbaric events
from our past, or to our relationship to animals. I like being ready,
being "loaded for bear", sure, but it seems the two sides of the
"alien question" are not getting equal coverage. Military / industrial
/ media complex at work here perhaps?

---

Question

Here, u talk about prez elections, predictions. But this model is too
simple!

Yes

The model is simple, but it is, in fact, deceptively simple. Let's see
what the modeler did not include in his model: he did not include
crime rates, the wheather, population increase, the price of oil or
whether or not the presidential candidate loves his mama. What he did
include however are these three variables, and these variables alone
(we hear Abramovitz is also toying with another variable -
polarization, which measures how much the electorate is divided along
party lines, etc., but this is still one variables out of bazillion he
could have included). He also did not have a seperate prediction for
Reps another one or Dems, he only had one - a prediction for the
incumbent party. By choosing the variables the way he did, he included
his intuition about what really matters in an election in his model;
up and down vote on the party in power. And the results are bang on.

Simple doesn't mean something is shoddy. Simple can be very effective.

And simple ain't easy. "Writing shorter takes longer" said the wise man, right?

---

Penn Jilette

It's amazing to me how many people think that voting to have the
government give poor people money is compassion. Helping poor and
suffering people is compassion. Voting for our government to use guns
to give money to help poor and suffering people is immoral
self-righteous bullying laziness. People need to be fed, medicated,
educated, clothed, and sheltered, and if we're compassionate we'll
help them, but you get no moral credit for forcing other people to do
what you think is right. There is great joy in helping people, but no
joy in doing it at gunpoint.

You are confused

I think these people live in a non-existent dreamland where they are
in a small village and know John, Jane, Bob, say hi to them every
morning, you know.. walk around in the town, if one is in need they
help out, with a smile on their face.. Sadly this world does not
exist, but help needs to reach to people who need it, somehow. Chances
are we as citizens dont know Jane, dont know John, but they are in
financial stress, in the meantime raise a troubled son who might just
shoot our ass in a movie theater thanks to lax gun laws these
rightwinger idiots also champion.

Jillette has problems presenting his ideas too; rightists do this all
the time; exaggerate a policy in a way it comes across as threatening
somehow. Like this Rick Scrotum.. or Santorum person, talking about
legalizing gay marriage, he said once [paraphrasing] "next thing you
know there'll be bestiality, bunch of weirdness, and then you're gonna
marry your dog". You see what he is doing here, he jumps from one
policy to something completely different, which happens to be some
obnoxiously comical, bizarre act, and scares people with it (my
example, above on the other hand, is completely plausible :)). Same
with Jilette above; He doesn't like the policy, but instead of saying
why in overall policy terms, he is like "government will use its guns
on me to make me pay".

Washington Post

The poorer you are, the more things cost. More in money, time, hassle,
exhaustion, menace. This is a fact of life that reality television and
magazines don't often explain.  So we'll explain it here. Consider
this a primer on the economics of poverty.

"The poor pay more for a gallon of milk; they pay more on a capital
basis for inferior housing," says Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.). "The
poor and 100 million who are struggling for the middle class actually
end up paying more for transportation, for housing, for health care,
for mortgages. They get steered to subprime lending. . . . The poor
pay more for things middle-class America takes for granted."

Damn

---
