# Week 12

Link

Deutsche Bank will outsource large parts of its wholesale banking IT
infrastructure to U.S.-based Hewlett-Packard (HP) in a
multibillion-dollar deal [..] Part of the bank's long-standing
restructuring efforts have included moving to a more flexible digital
platform as pressure rises on the financial sector overall to cut
costs, embrace web-based client platforms, and face competitors coming
from outside of traditional banking [Feb 24]

Great

DB ATM cards cannot even be used in the Netherlands. Hopefully this gets fixed.

This must be good news for HP tho..

---

Link

HP share price tumbles as earnings fall far short of analysts’ forecast [Feb 26]

Huh?

After the  multibillion $ deal... ?

---

Link

[There has been a] shak[e up at] the Human Brain Project.

Good news

---

Question

But basic income was never considered seriously by anyone before.

Incorrect

Richard Nixon almost enacted it into law. From The Second Machine Age,

pg. 429

Basic income is not part of mainstream policy discussions today, but
it has a surprisingly long history and came remarkably close to
reality in twentieth-century America. One of its early proponents was
the English-American political activist Thomas Paine, who advocated in
his 1797 pamphlet Agrarian Justice that everyone should be given a
lump sum of money upon reaching adulthood to compensate for the unjust
fact that some people were born into landowning families while others
were not. Later advocates included philosopher Bertrand Russell and
civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., who wrote in 1967, “I am
now convinced that the simplest approach will prove to be the most
effective—the solution to poverty is to abolish it directly by a now
widely discussed measure: the guaranteed income.”

Many economists on both the left and the right have agreed with
King. Liberals including James Tobin, Paul Samuelson, and John Kenneth
Galbraith and conservatives like Milton Friedman and Friedrich Hayek
have all advocated income guarantees in one form or another, and in
1968 more than 1,200 economists signed a letter in support of the
concept addressed to the U.S. Congress.

The president elected that year, Republican Richard Nixon, tried
throughout his first term in office to enact it into law. In a 1969
speech he proposed a Family Assistance Plan that had many features of
a basic income program. The plan had support across the ideological
spectrum, but it also faced a large and diverse group of
opponents. Caseworkers and other administrators of existing welfare
programs feared that their jobs would be eliminated under the new
regime; some labor leaders thought that it would erode support for
minimum wage legislation [..]  Minimum wage cannot relied upon to
deliver such redistribution, because in US only 44% of people aged 18+
have a job according to Gallup. Plus imposing artificially high
minimum wage requirements can hurt a business' competitiveness. Basic
income is both the social and free-market oriented solution (hence the
support of Friedman and Hayek).

---

Mercedez-Benz CEO

[Paraphrasing, in response to Apple planning to get into car
manufacturing business] A car is much more complicated to build than
an iPhone.

Maybe

But as far as complexity goes, these companies also deal with software
that are in millions lines of code territory, that is pretty
complex. In this day and age, it's all about mixing; Amazon might get
into hosting, a search engine into ads (remember Google before the
whole ads thing?). So I'd watch out.

---

Businessinsider

UBS, Bank of America, and Morgan Stanley stand out in the global
wealth management industry, each responsible for handling more than $1
trillion in investors' assets.

But they're now under siege from well-funded startups that offer a
wide array of advisory services at a low cost thanks to broad use of
automated functions.

These are the robo-advisors.

We're only in the first inning of the wealth management wars, but this
business that has historically been dominated by well-staffed big
banks and a network of good-old-boy relationships is seeing its
competitive landscape evolve rapidly [..] Betterment, Wealthfront,
FutureAdvisor and Personal Capital are among these new firms.

Great

---

Question

Why not Bush?

Common Turd

Standardizing education will not work as it is an industrial era
modern concoction, which is exactly what Common Core is. Conservatives
are up in arms about it as they should be.

---

An economist 

[Paraphrasing] In order to spur the economy, in post-modern times, it
is better for governments to invest in infrastructure.

True

A public Wifi network that is always on in each part of every city,
for example, would be a major boon. Infrastructure spending is good
because it helps everyone equally.

Also, nowadays, there is another kind of infrastructure, a human
infrastructure, that is a combination of environmental / cultural
constructs that promote courage, enterpreneurship, trying something
new and failing fast. In order to support this infrastructure, one
needs to mitigate its adverse effects, i.e. abject failure, which can
occur more often than not. Another motive for basic income.

---

Link

Want to get paid for shampooing someone's hair? In California, you may
need to have at least nine months of experience and pass a licensing
test overseen by the state barbering and cosmetology board, whose
members include salon professionals.

Do you clean dogs' teeth for pay as part of a grooming service? You
might run afoul of the state Veterinary Medical Board, which includes
four veterinarians and a veterinary technician among its eight members
[..].

[A recent Supreme Court] decision means that "the vast majority of
commissions and boards in all 50 states are untenable and illegal,"
says Robert Fellmeth, a veteran antitrust expert who is executive
director of the Center for Public Interest Law at the University of
San Diego law school. The court has established, he says, that "the
king has been wearing no clothes for the last 72 years."

Good

The behaviour outlined above is second wave specialization: "In both capitalist and socialist industrial states, [...] specialization was accompanied by a rising tide of professionalization. 
Whenever the opportunity arose for some group of specialists to 
monopolize esoteric knowledge and keep newcomers out of their field, 
professions emerged". 

In 3W world noone decides who, for example, a professional taxi driver
is. Good drivers are rated well in Uber or Lyft  and get more
demand. Peer-to-peer, decentralized. End of story.

---

History

In 1978 [the leader of China] Deng Xiaoping was on a state visit in
Singapore [..] Deng was curious about what the Singaporeans had done
to develop their country so rapidly [.., and] he confesse[d to Lee
Kuan Yew, the founder of today's Singapore] that he doubted whether
China would ever become as successful as Singapore. Lee reportedly
replied, “we, the Singapore Chinese, were the descendants of
illiterate landless peasants from Guangdong and Fujian in south China,
whereas the scholars, mandarins, and literati had stayed and left
their progeny in China. There was nothing that Singapore had done that
China could not do, and do better.”

Hah

The story is Xiaoping was so effected by Yew's comments that it became
one of the reasons China started to change. But was Yew correct? I
believe the real advantage Singapore had was not having too much
history; it made them more agile. China, overburdened with history
could not do anything different, for a long time.

---

Link

Roughly one third of the food produced in the world for human
consumption every year — approximately 1.3 billion tonnes — gets lost
or wasted.

Big waste

---

George Orwell

It is curious to reflect that out of al the ‘experts’ of all the
schools, there was not a single one who was able to foresee so likely
an event as the Russo-German Pact of 1939 [..] A few writers of
conservative tendency, such as Peter Drucker [emphasis mine] foretold
an agreement between Germany and Russia, but they expected an actual
alliance or amalgamation which would be permanent. No Marxist or other
left-wing writer, of whatever colour, came anywhere near foretelling
the Pact.

Nice

---

Orwell quoting Drucker! It feels like seeing a reference to Macbeth in
the Illiad. Probably the reason that feeling is that Orwell, being the
influential figure that he is, comes accross as if he should be from
an earlier age. Drucker, because he talked a lot about hi-tech, the
knowledge economy and management feels like should be younger. But
Orwell lived btw 1903-1950, Drucker was born at 1909, and lived until
2005.

The Economist

A recent paper, by Lauren Cohen, Umit Gurun and Scott Kominers,
suggests that the rise in patent-related litigation has not really
helped protect the rights of inventors. The authors collected a
comprehensive dataset on non-practicing entities (NPE), relevant
patents and lawsuits between NPEs for the period 2001 and 2011. The
paper's authors found that rather than acting as benevolent patent
enforcers, NPEs simply target the firms with the most cash—however
good or bad their argument that a patent has been infringed is. For
example, the probability of being sued by NPEs doubles after a firm
experiences a sudden increase in its cash balance. Patent trolls are
also more likely to go after firms that employ fewer lawyers. And the
largest NPEs are the worst offenders.

Economists say that patent trolls can play a useful role by helping to
transfer the profit generated by patents from manufacturers to
inventors. But the new research finds that inventors only receive 5%
of their patent’s value after successful infringement cases. The rest
goes to lawyers and NPEs that do not engage in innovation.

In effect, this damages productivity by punishing innovators for 
their success. The authors find in their data that firms that lost 
lawsuits against patent trolls or settled out of court spent on average 
$211m less on research and development than firms that won. This meant 
that they were also less likely to conduct research that produced new 
patents in the future. Because economic growth is fuelled by innovative 
firms boosting their productivity, these disincentives could be holding 
back the wider economy.

---

News 

This week Google shared details about a Project Ara store through
which users will be able to buy snap-on hardware blocks for the
customizable smartphone.

Are you kidding me? 

Google is doing that too? Is there anything cool that Google is not
involved in, that's what I wanna know..

Note: We all remember the Phonebloks video released some time ago. PB
and Ara sometimes collaborate apparently, but are seperate entities.

---

Question

Where does the wave picture of the blog come from?

Here

![](big-wave-surfing.jpg)


---

Link

[G]etting eco-friendly hydrogen is still a bit of a challenge. Right
now, a lot of hydrogen is produced through mixing steam and natural
gas [but that method is not so green..] A new study published [..]
announces the development of a transparent film that uses energy from
the sun to separate water into hydrogen and oxygen, without some of
the dangerous side effects inherent in the process.

Sweet

Clean oxygen through sun energy! Awesome.

---

Analyst

When [a certain pattern] occurs, we noticed [a certain stock] went up
6 out of 9 times. So there is a 66% chance the next time [the same
pattern] occurs the stock will go up. This stock could be invested in,
during these times.

Do that and you will lose your shirt

This "analyst" clearly does not know statistics. If u look at the 95% confidence interval of that ratio,

```
x=6.;n=9.;p=(x+2)/(n+4); z = 1.96
print p + np.array([-1,+1])*z*np.sqrt(p*(1-p)/n)
```

The result is `[0.30 0.93]`, so the low percentage is 30%. The sound
investment strategy would look at this number, not the higher one, or
the average. If you go by that number, there is no clear connection
between the said pattern and the said "increase".

---


Link

In November, Tom Loverro of RRE Ventures wrote that “banks are under
attack” and showed a few of the major players leading this
trend. Inspired by his post [..] we wanted to dig in and see how banks
are being unbundled by startups. The graphic [in the article], details
companies attacking bank services ranging from robo-advisers wealth
management services like Wealthfront and Betterment to small business
loan companies like OnDeck Capital and Kabbage to small business
service providers like Zenefits and ZenPayroll, and many other areas.

Sweet

Comment

Link

[Repeat item] Want to get paid for shampooing someone's hair? In
California, you may need to have at least nine months of experience
and pass a licensing test overseen by the state barbering and
cosmetology board, whose members include salon professionals.  Do you
clean dogs' teeth for pay as part of a grooming service? You might run
afoul of the state Veterinary Medical Board, which includes four
veterinarians and a veterinary technician among its eight members
[..].

[The recent Supreme Court] decision means that "the vast majority of
commissions and boards in all 50 states are untenable and illegal,"
says Robert Fellmeth, a veteran antitrust expert who is executive
director of the Center for Public Interest Law at the University of
San Diego law school. The court has established, he says, that "the
king has been wearing no clothes for the last 72 years."

Good

The behaviour described above is second wave specialization: "In both
capitalist and socialist industrial states [...] specialization was
accompanied by a rising tide of professionalization. Whenever the
opportunity arose for some group of specialists to monopolize esoteric
knowledge and keep newcomers out of their field, professions emerged".

In 3W world noone decides who, for example, a professional taxi driver
is. Good drivers are rated well in Uber or Lyft  and get more
demand. Peer-to-peer, decentralized.

---

Jurgen Schmidhuber

[Schmidhuber is an deep learning expert] General purpose quantum computation won’t work (my prediction of 15
years ago is still standing). Related: The universe is deterministic,
and the most efficient program that computes its entire history is
short and fast, which means there is little room for true
randomness, which is very expensive to compute. What looks random must
be pseudorandom, like the decimal expansion of Pi, which is computable
by a short program. Many physicists disagree, but Einstein was right:
no dice.  

Interesting

It somewhat ties into this 

Link

Andrew Ng builds artificial intelligence systems for a living. He
taught AI at Stanford, built AI at Google, and then moved to the
Chinese search engine giant, Baidu, to continue his work at the
forefront of applying artificial intelligence to real-world problems
[..].

“For those of us shipping AI technology, working to build these 
technologies now,” he told me, wearily, yesterday, “I don’t see any 
realistic path from the stuff we work on today—which is amazing and 
creating tons of value— [..] for the software [..] to turn evil.”

The bigger worry, he noted, was the effect that increasingly smart 
machines might have on the job market, displacing workers in all kinds 
of fields much faster than even industrialization displaced agricultural
 workers or automation displaced factory workers.

Fear Roomba, Not The Terminator 

Link

The documents reveal that Nissan has set an aggressive schedule for the [self-driving car] project, planning to have prototype cars operating within two years. Google and Uber are both rumored to be pursuing the same goal, so a race for the mythical robo-taxi is on. (A European consortium is in the race too.)

Sweet

Link

Google and Facebook [are racing] to bring the Web to the developing world

Sweet

The race is on, all over the place

Link

The mass media is often [in] the opinion that the US economy has recovered strongly in recent years and many wounds of the 2008 debt crisis are healed. One look at the data is sufficient to see that such stories are pure propaganda [..] The US stock market climbs almost daily to new record highs, many financial professionals interpret this to mean that it is the US economy is dazzling and it will be the engine of growth for the world economy in the coming years [which is unlikely]; The reason is that many Americans [are still kneck-deep in debt].

Yep

George Soros

[The Alchemy of Finance] The large and growing U.S. budget deficit [before 1982] emerged as the unin­tended consequence of conflicting policy objectives. On the one hand, President Reagan sought to reduce [..] taxes; on the other, he wanted to assume a strong military posture in confronting what considered the Communist menace. These two objectives could not be pursued within the constraints of a balanced budget. To make matters worse, fiscal and monetary policies were dom­inated by two conflicting schools of thought. Fiscal policy was influenced by "supply-side" economics, whereas monetary pol­icy was guided by the precepts of monetarism [..].

In his first budget [Reagan] cut taxes and increased military spending simultaneously. Although a con­certed effort was made to reduce domestic spending, the savings were not large enough to offset the other two items. The path of least resistance led to a large budget deficit.

Since the budget deficit had to be financed within the limits of strict money supply targets, interest rates rose to unprecedented heights. Instead of economic expansion, the conflict between fis­cal and monetary policy brought on a severe recession. Unexpect­edly high interest rates combined with a recession to precipitate the international debt 'crisis of 1982. 
People Don't Cause Crisis', Governments Do

.. as none of items described above have anything to do with the free-market philosophy. I am not saying battling the Soviets was not a worthy goal; in that end however some steps were taken whose side-effect was a crisis. Or turning China into world's manufacturing base with the hope they will turn into an innovating economy later on (which they are now), again, can be seen as a worthy goal. As a side effect to that, imbalances build up in the "global" economy,  combined with other governmental missteps another crisis happened. Fine. (Or, not). But say that, instead of turning the finger to people trading with eachother and say it was all their fault.

---

Romanian girl

They say in my country, "Italian women are beautiful. Half of them are
from Romania"

Wonder where that saying came from

---

Some more info on the battle itself from *33 Strategies of War*, by
R. [Greene](../../2022/08/33-strategies.html#galipoli).

Analysis: If your orders are vague and halfhearted, by the time they
reach the field they will be meaningless. Let people work unsupervised
[..] they will see in your orders what they want to see [..] Unless
you adapt your leadership style to the weaknesses of the people in
your group, you will almost certainly end up with a break in the chain
of command"

The excerpt above has some interesting side conclusions: First is,
even though Galipoli could not be won by the Allies, this did not
"change the course of the war". Germany and Ottomans eventually
lost. Second, the battle of Galipoli was Britain's to lose. The other
side fought well, true, but Brits were planning, attacking, just not
at the top of their game. If they were, with the right commander in
charge, the war would have been over. They had everything else in
place.

If the course of the war did not change, then what did change? The
only thing Galipoli achieve was propelling the career of a young
officier named Kemal giving him the hero status who successfully
fought the British at Suvla. Kemal would later become the founder of
Turkland.

Germans chose wrong; they partnered up with Ottomans, a land based
power, who could not complement Germany - another land based
power. But neither side probably had much choice in the matter given
the existing arragement of power around the world and the region. The
ultimate good thing coming out WWI obviously is the eventual collapse
of the Ottoman Empire which could not be stopped either, as it was
several centuries in the making.

---

When he spoke about his new film, which is set four years after the
Battle of Gallipoli, Crowe said that at Gallipoli “Australia invaded a
sovereign nation” and it was time to stop celebrating the mythology of
Gallipoli. “You know, I think, after 100 years, it’s time to expand
that mythology. And I think we should be mature enough as a nation to
take into account the story that the other blokes have to tell. You
know, um, because we did invade a soveign nation that we’s never had
an angry word with".

This is true. The Galipoli loss, for some reason, became part of the
Aussie national identity. Brits told them to go there and fight, why
the hell else would they be half way around the world near a country
they had no quarrel with? Good thing some ppl started to challenge
this nationalistic non-sense.

Here is [the reason](../../2017/07/the-next-decade-friedman.html#australia)
why Oz attaches itself to a naval power's interest, because of
strategic need.






