# Lycia's History - A Struggle For Freedom

The history of Lycia is a story of fierce struggles against those who
sought to invade and dominate it, as it was a very desirable region.
It appears that Greek efforts to colonize Lycia during the first
millennium B.C. were largely unsuccessful even though there were
several Athenian expeditions.

The first recorded instance of Lycian resistance fighting occurred
around 540 BC when the Persians under the commander Harpagos overran
all Asia Minor during the rule of Cyrus II (The Great). The Persians
attacked the Lycian capital city of Xanthos and the Xanthosians put up
a heroic fight.  In the end however, they chose mass suicide over
surrender. The men of Xanthos gathered their wives, children and
possessions in the acropolis and set fire to all before rushing out
fighting to die to the last man.  Herodotus of Halicarnassos reports:

"The Persian Army entered the plain of Xanthos under the command of
Harpagos, and did battle with the Xanthians. The Xanthians fought with
small numbers against the superior Persians forces, with legendary
bravery. They resisted the endless Persian forces with great courage,
but were finally beaten, their womenfolk, children, slaves and
treasures into the fortress. This was then set on fire from, below and
around the walls , until destroyed by conflagration. Then the warriors
of Xanthos made their final attack on the Persians, their voices
raised in calls of war, until every last man from Xanthos was killed."

This disaster was confirmed during excavations by a thick layer of ash
covering the site.

Xanthos was later repopulated by about 80 families outside the city at
the time of the mass suicide as well as other Lycian immigrants to the
city.  Persian rule of Lycia actually proved to be quite mild,
requiring only tribute, and the country was left to be ruled by its
own dynasts. The state of calm that came over Lycia fostered economic
growth and the strength of the region.  The abundant coinage of Lycia
in the 5th and 4th centuries BC testifies to the great prosperity of
Lycia at that time.  It was during this period that the first
monumental rock-cut tombs were carved and the Lycian alphabet came
into wide-spread use.

Lycia remained nominally under Persian rule in the late 5th century,
but in practice was almost independent, as long as they kept paying
their tribute to Persia.  In 480 BC the Lycians contributed fifty
ships to the Persian King Xerxes' invasion of Greece, though they
later sided with Athens.

Around 470 BC the Athenian general Cimon was campaigning against the
Persians in Lycia and from 454 BC the Lycians joined the Delian
League, contributing ships and later, tribute.  Not that they had much
of a choice. Plutarch tells us that Phaselis refused to join the
League or admit Cimon's fleet, so in retaliation Cimon "devastated
their land". Around 468 BC Cimon, with a fleet of 300 ships, arrived
at the southern coast of Asia Minor and drove the Persians out of
Lycia and neighbouring Caria.

Following the ousting of the Persians, as Athens and Sparta fought the
Peloponnesian wars, the majority of Lycian cities defaulted from the
Delian League, with the exception of Telmessos and Phaselis.  In 429
BC, Athens sent a expedition against Lycia to try to force it to
rejoin the league.  This failed when Lycia's leader Gergis of Xanthos
defeated General Melasander.

The Lycians once again fell under Persian domination and by 412 Lycia
is documented as fighting on the winning side of Persia.  The Persian
Satraps (province governors/local military rulers) were re-installed,
but allowed local dynasts the freedom to rule.  Gergis was suceeded by
his son, Arbinnus of Tlos, who ruled Telmessos, Xanthos, Pinara and
erected the temples of Leto and Apollo at Letoon.  There are a few
theories about exactly what happened next in history, but it seems
that the dynast Pericles of Limyra's ambition was apparently to gain
eastern independence from the rulers of Xanthos.  He may have defeated
the dynasty at Xanthos and come to have controlled all of Lycia and
neighboring regions to the north and east.  The Persians would not
have allowed this shift of power and so, along with some other
Anatolian regions and satraps, Pericles led Lycia into the Satraps
Revolt in 362 BC in a bid to win independence.  When the revolt was
crushed, Lycia was placed under the control of a Persian satrap of
Carian descent, Mausolus (from whom we get the word Mausoleum), and
became an occupied territory with garrisons put in strategic places.
From this time on, Carian rulers began suppressing the indigenous
culture of Lycia and imposing Helleno-Carian culture.  The Letoon
Trilingual text, discovered at Letoon in 1973 (now in the Fethiye
Museum) discusses the introduction of two Carian cults in the heart of
Lycia and gives clear evidence of Carian rule.

By the time Alexander the Great arrived in Lycia in
333/4 BC, the Lycians must have been fed up with Carian rule because
we know that when Alexander arrived, he did not receive a hostile
reception from the Lycians - it seems that he may have possibly been
welcomed as a deliverer.  Xanthos opened its gates voluntarily,
whereas before it had resisted foreign invasions, and all other Lycian
cities quietly submitted to Alexander - save Termessos (sometimes
reckoned as part of Lycia, sometimes as part of Pisidia).  Alexander
never did take Termessos - its fierce people did not want his rule and
he took one look at the city perched high on the mountain and then
went around it.  It was of no use to him anyhow.  The Roman historian
Anabasis Alexandri in his Campaigns of Alexander (the most important
source on Alexander) tells us that Lycia added 10 triremes to
Alexander's gathered fleet which trounced Darius' Tyrian allies at the
siege of Tyre.  Lycian cavalry units were also incorporated into
Alexander's army, along with some from Lydia, Syria and other Asian
satraps.

Following the death of Alexander, his generals argued over his
conquests and Lycia, along with most of Asia minor, was taken over by
General Antignus.  But in 309 BC, another of Alexander's generals,
Ptolemy, who declared himself king of Egypt, took over Lycia.  It was
during this Ptolemaic rule which lasted over a hundred years, that
Lycia began to lose a bit of its native character.  Greek was adopted
by Lycia as the nation’s language and the Greek influence was also
felt in art and culture. For example, the popularization of
sarcophagus-tombs to replace the earlier rock-cut tombs. The rule of
the Lycian dynasts ended with Pericles, as cities adopted Greek
constitutions. It was also during this time that the democratic Lycian
Union was formed. It eventually consisted of 36 cities.

The Ptolemies heavily taxed Lycia and forced Lycians to serve in the
Egyptian army.  Lycia was then relieved by Antiochus III, king of the
Seleucids (based in Syria) in 197 BC.  Phaselis, Limyra, Andriace,
Patara and Xanthos are specifically mentioned as having been captured
by him.

Shortly afterwards, in 192 BC, the Syrian War began when Antiochus
refused the demands of Rome to halt his westward expansion and to
withdraw from Greek cities in Asia Minor. Rome had previously issued a
degree giving "freedom" to some of these cities, freedom under the
sphere of Rome, a sphere which Antiochus now claimed as his own.  The
two superpowers went head-to-head.

The Roman historian Livy tells us that Rhodes became an ally with Rome
and suggested that they each detach part of a fleet to occupy Patara
as the port was defensible, had good shelter for ships and was at a
strategic place to intercept Antiochus's fleet before it headed north.
The Romans and Rhodians were only able to detach eleven ships under
the command of C. Livius.  The operation was a total disaster: when
the ships reached Patara, they lost all hope of surprise or success
when a heavy wind prevented them from reaching the city.  With
darkness falling, they sought shelter in the port of nearby Phoenicus
- modern-day Kalkan.  (note: today ships still find safe harbour in
Kalkan when the seas are rough).  However, they soon found the hills
above them crowned with Lycian townspeople from Patara and the kings's
garrison.  A ferocious battle raged as "more and more (Lycians) came
out of the city in a constant stream and at last the whole of the
able-bodied population were pouring out".  These attackers could not
be driven back within Patara's walls until the very oarsmen from the
ships galleys engaged in battle.  The Romans and Rhodians returned to
their ships with considerable losses and abandoned the thought of any
further attempt on Patara.

The battle took place in this bay, the bay of modern-day
Kalkan. Patara is just beyond these hills, the mountain in the
distance sits at the western-most edge of Patara Beach (the beach is
partially Patara's silted-up ancient harbour).
 
Read Livy's exciting account of the battle here.

In 190 BC Antiochus was defeated by the Romans at the battle of
Magnesia.  The Roman historian Livy then tells us that Q. Fabius
Labeo, who was in charge of the Roman fleet, went to Patara and had
all the the king's ships there (50 of them) broken or burnt up.

Lycia had contributed an army to Antiochus III which fought with him
at the battle of Magnesia.  Rome punished Lycia by handing it over to
Rhodes (with the exception of Telmessos).  Dreadfully misunderstanding
the situation, the Lycians first sent an embassy to Rhodes desiring an
alliance but were soon informed of their true situation.  The Lycians
were extremely resentful of their harsh treatment in the hands of
Rhodes and spent the next two decades fiercely fighting the Rhodesians
and petitioning the Roman Senate. Finally, weary of the trouble and no
longer allies with Rhodes, the Roman Senate in 167 BC removed control
from Rhodes and granted semi-self rule to Lycia.  The one permanent
result of Rhodian rule in Lycia was that Phaselis, a Rhodian colony,
was from then on included in Lycia.

Read more about Rhode's harsh treatment of Lycia here and the probable
cause of its desire to control Lycia.

Read some accounts by Polybius in his book Histories of the violent
quarrel between Rhodes and Lycia and Lycia's revolts.

Some time in the second century BC, probably near the beginning, two
men, Lysanias and Eudemus, seized control of Xanthos and carried out
executions in their attempt to set up tyranny.  A campaign of the
Lycian League's forces supressed them and restored order.  However,
shortly after this, Eudemus made a second attempt at Tlos and once
again the League's forces were called out.  From this it is evident
that the the Lycian Union was strong and ready to act in defense of
freedom.

The formation of the Roman province of Asia in 167 BC left Lycia
untouched and the Lycian League came into prominence.  In 88 BC the
Pontic king Mithridates VI attacked and overran western Asia Minor and
most places welcomed him as a liberator due to unsatisfactory Roman
administration.  Lycia, however, was among the few who resisted,
proving its loyalty and gratitude to Rome (for releasing Lycia from
Rhodian rule).  Mithridates sent his officers to subdue Lycia.  They
laid seige to Patara for a time, and committed the offence of cutting
timber at a sacred grove at Letoon, Lycia's sacred religious centre,
to construct engines of war.  However, Lycia was was not effectively
occupied and in 84 BC the king was defeated by the Romans.  Rome
reaffirmed Lycia's independence and showed its gratitude of Lycia's
loyalty by enlarging the Lycian territory with the addition of the
three cities of Bubon, Balbura and Oenoanda.  Lycia's friendship with
Rome was soon furthered.  After the victory of emperor Gaius Julius
Caesar over his former general Pompey in Pharsalus, he and his forces
travelled through Asia Minor en route to Egypt.  Along the way Caesar
receieved delegations from cities and communities who were anxious to
be on good terms with him.  Evidently the Lycians were among these
people and were rewarded with a treaty of friendship and reciprocal
miliary alliance.  Such treaties were the foundation of the Roman
Empire and one of the reasons for its military success and stability
over the centuries.  However, Lycian did not come under direct Roman
rule at this time, and did not do so until the time of the Emperor
Claudius.

The peacefulness was not to last.  Lycia soon fell victim to the
ensuing power struggle in Rome and its loyalty was tested.  In 42 BC
Brutus passed through Asia Minor to collect money and soldiers.  Lycia
refused to make contributions to Brutus' resources and so Brutus
attacked Xanthos, where the League's soldiers were gathered.  The
Xanthians battled fiercely, but once again, as 500 years before, the
Xanthosians chose mass suicide over domination.  Myra was also
affected by Brutus when he sent his lieutenant Lentulus Spinther to
collect money; Spinther had to force an entry to the harbour at
Andriace by breaking the chain which barred their way.  The Myrans
then submitted and complied with his demands.  Patara also capitulated
and the rest of Lycia followed. (Read Plutarch's narrative of Brutus's
capture of Lycia, not necessarily completely true).

Roman armies later took control of Lycia by beating Brutus and
repaired Xanthos.  Antoninius, who had defeated Brutus, took over
Rome's eastern territories and allowed the Lycians their freedom.
Thus, Lycia remained the only part of Asia Minor not to be
incorporated into Rome's sphere of power.

Lycia again prospered, under the reign of Augustus which began in 27
BC. when he appointed Marcus Agrippa to administer the eastern
provinces, the beginning of a period of benevolent and peaceful rule.

Lycian cities cultivated good relations with Rome, like many cities
within Rome's sphere of influence that were not actually part of Roman
provinces.  An inscription from Oenoanda honors Piso the Pontifex when
he was the governor of neigboring Galatia-Pamphylia in cira 12 BC and
Myra erected a statue of their Roman patron in Ephesus, most likely
the proconsul of Asia circa 28 AD.

Emperor ClaudiusIn 43 AD, with the orders of Emperor Claudius, all of
Lycia was annexed to Roman Pamphylia (Lycia's eastern neighbour).  The
historian Cassius Dio tells us that this was done because Lycia had
"revolted and slain some Romans."  Unfortunately, he does not tell us
anything more about the revolt.  However, Claudius' real motivation
was probably the desire for full control of supplies coming from
Lycia.  By this time Lycia was an important source of timber from its
vast pine and cedar of lebanon forests, and wheat.

Upon annexation, Claudius immediately commissioned a survey of the
roads of Lycia.  Control of this road system was vital to Rome, both
to ensure easy movement of their troops around the frontier provinces
as well as delivery of crops to major ports.  A stone pillar recording
the survey of Lycia was discovered in Patara and at Tlos there is a
monument dedicated by the city to an army commander who was also
Lycia's commissioner of roads and insepector of the grain supply.
What may be a Roman way-station consisting of a small fort or
watchtower, other buildings and a small bath has been found near an
ancient road between Arycanda and Limyra, about a one-day's walk from
both cities. The area may have been a place of settlement, provinding
relief for the imperal post (cursus publicus) and weary travellers.

After being incorporated into a province with Pamphylia, Lycia was
administered by a governer whom the emperor appointed, Quintus
Veranius.  However, the Lycian League still functioned under a special
agreement with the Roman Senate and was politically distinct from
Pamphylia.  Strabo tells us that the League decided on domestic issues
and security while questions of war, peace and alliance (except in
special cases) now rested in the hand of Rome.

Corruption in the eastern provinces does seem to have been somewhat of
a problem around this time. According to the Roman historian Cornelius
Tacitus in his work 'The Annals', in 58 AD the former governors of the
provinces of Asia, Cilicia and Lycia all had legal action brought upon
them by the provinces. (The former governor of Asia was also charged
with the murder of his pro-consul) Eprius Marcellus, Lycian's governor
from 53 to 56 AD, was prosecuted for for misappropriation of funds.
Lycia sought damages, but Marcellus was acquitted.  In fact, he had
such influence that some of his accusers were punished with exile, “as
if they had conspired the ruin of an innocent man.”

Under the emperor Nero Lycia was briefly freed from Rome in 67 AD, but
was shortly thereafter re-annexed to Pamphylia under Vespasian in 70
AD following the civil war of 69 AD.  This arrangement continued
happily until the composite province was split up by Diocletian in the
early fourth century and Lycia became a separate province.

During the first and second centuries AD, the emperors Germanicus,
Vespasian, Traianus and Hadrian visited Lycia for various reasons.
The emperor Germanicus and his wife Agrippina paid Myra a visit in 18
AD and were honoured with statues of themselves erected in Andriace
(Myra's port).  Vespasian (69-79 AD) treated Patara with respect and
made monetary contributions to public works in the region.  A large
bath was built there during his time and dedicated to him (this is
disputed - it may have been built during Nero's reign). Hadrian (known
as one of the Five Good Emperors) visited Lycia with his wife Sabina
in 131 AD.  He was popular in most of his provinces and during his
visits was usually greeted enthusiastically, in part thanks to the
gifts and public works Emperor Hadrianprojects he offered.  He
believed in strengthening the Empire from within through improved
infrastructure and commissioned new structures, projects and
settlements on his many travels.  Hadrian was warmly received in Lycia
and he built huge graneries at Patara and Andriace and at Phaselis
numerous buildings and statues were erected in his honour.  A emperor
worship cult in his name was also formed at Letoon.

Zosimus, the Byzantine historian of the 5th and 6th century AD, tells
the story of the death of a robber chieftan named Lydius the Isaurian
(may be the same person as Palfuerius in the History Augusta) who was
terrorizing Lycia and Pamphylia with his fellow brigands. The
Isaurians were a people from the mountains on the borders of Pisidia
and Cilicia, north of the Taurus range, a wild region inhabited by
marauding bands notorious for causing havoc among neighboring regions.
The emperor Probus personally went to Lycia in 279 AD to put the
terror to an end and Lydius was killed in the fighting.  Probus then
constructed a fortress and settled large groups of veterans in the
area, giving them land in exchange for the promise that their sons
would also serve in the legions when they were old enough.

Lycia naturally underwent a process of romanization of its culture,
art and daily life in its Roman period. Lycian aristocrats began to
adopt Roman names and the emperor cult spread rapidly.

As was common in Anatolia, there was also a demand for wild animal
fights and gladitorial games.  We know from L. Robert's 'Les
Gladiateurs Dan L'orient Grec' that in Pinara there was a man who was
honored for organizing many spectacles in Lycian cites: bullfights
(tauromaxi/a), hunts after animals by trained hunters (kunhgesi/a),
shows of animals before they were slaughtered (prokunhgi/a), ritual
sacrifices of bulls (tauroboli/a), and qhriomaxi/a (the collective
name for all sorts of fights: those between animal and human being
(trained or not; armed or not) and those between animal and animal).

Someone organized prokunhgi/a at Xanthos, and tauromaxi/a and
qhriomaxi/a were held at Letoon; in Telmessos: monomaxi/a and
qhriomaxi/a; in Oenoanda: kunhgesi/a, qhriomaxi/a and monomaxi/a
(gladitorial games).  Most likely these types of shows were held in
other cities as well.

The presentation of these games was not cheap. An idea of the costs
can be made from an 115 AD inscription from Oenoanda; a certain
Licinius Longus gave 110,000 denarii to the Lycian League, 40,000 to
Myra, 50,000 to Tlos and to his home town of Oenoanda he provided wild
beast hunts and gladiatorial combats (and surely the cost of his
generosity to his native city would have surpassed that of his gifts
to Myra or Tlos).

Lycia prospered under imperial rule. Most of the sumptuous monuments
and public works in Lycian cities dates from the Roman period,
specifically from the the 2nd century A.D.  As trade expanded people
became wealthier and many rich Lycians gave generously to their
country. For example, Opramoas of Rhodiapolis personally financed
almost 60 major monuments in all Lycian cities including the theatres
of Xanthos, Tlos, and Limyra.

Lycia remained prosperous into the early Byzantine period, the basis
of which was still timber, olives and wool, unlike most of the
Mediterranean which grew prosperous from agriculture.  Lycia was home
to a large cedar of Lebanon forest; this wood was one of the most
demanded materials in antiquity - it was used for construction, ship
building and coffin making.

The Decline of Lycia

Following two very large earthquakes in 141 AD and 240 AD some cities
were unable to recover and Lycia began to decline somewhat. However, a
distinct Lycian nationhood seems to have survived well after the
arrival of Christianity in the 3rd century AD.

The spread of Christianity brought important social and cultural
changes to Lycia.  It was not an easy transition however.  The first
Christians in Lycia were detested, among other reasons, not for their
religion, but for their refusal to make sarcrifices to the imperial
gods, a treasonous offense.  The making of such sarcrifices was
considered a civic duty for the good of the empire, believed to
placate the gods.  When the Chrisitians refused, they became a threat
to the well-being of their communities.

During the official 'Great Persecution' of the early 4th century
(persecution began earlier than this), cities throughout the east were
encouraged to petition the emeperor for special permission (and
rewards) for expelling Chrisitians.  An inscription at Arycanda
records that such a petition was made by the province of Lycia and
Pamphylia.  Ultimately, however, the persecution failed and in 312 AD
the emperor Constantine made Christianity legal with the Edict of
Milan.  Several martyrs in Lycia are recorded in history and various
micacles are said to have occurred.  The most important figure of
Lycia's Christian history was St. Nicholas (later known as Santa
Claus), Bishop of the Lycian city of Myra.

Many ancient Lycian cities became Byzantine settlements of importance.
Twenty-five of them became seats of bishoprics.  What is interesting
is that while carefully constructed monumental churches were built in
Lycia's mountainous areas in settlements so small that the names are
unknown, buildings on the coast - even large churches - are known for
their careless construction, often of rubble masonry.Church of
St. Nicholas, Myra (Demre)

Another natural disaster which no doubt helped along the decline of
Lycia was the bubonic plague.  It wreaked havoc in Anatolia for 200
years, from 542 AD to the last outbreak of this pandemic in 745 AD.
This was the same plague that reduced the population of Europe by
about 50 percent by 600 AD and has been seen as the cause of the
beginning of the Dark Ages in Europe.  Through death, depopulation and
the consequent abandonment of agricultural land and cities, the nature
of Byzantine society and patterns of settlement and land use that had
been established over centuries in Anatolia were changed throughout
Anatolia.  This impacted the economy, currency and military also.
This 200 years of plague in Anatolia was a formative event and
distinguishes classical and early Byzantine Anatolia from late
Byzantine and Seljuk Anatolia.

Flourishing Byzantine Cilician coastal ports and cities were all
abandoned during this period and there is no reason to suppose that
Lycia was immune from the plague's depopulation.  Indeed, Lycia's Myra
was struck by the plague in 542-3 AD, with one-third of the population
dying, most likely brought by plague carriers travelling along the
coast of Anatolia by coastal shipping trade and by the return of
Christian pilgrims from Palestine and Byzantine shipping to Egypt (the
plague spread from Ethiopia to the Sudan to Egypt 541 AD).  It was
called the plague of Justinian because the Byzantine Emperor Justinian
himself survived an encounter with it.  John of Ephesus described the
plague as, "The wine press of the Lord," and noted that corn was left
unharvested in the fields.  Evagrius, wrote in 593, "I believe no part
of the human race to have been uninflicted by the disease, for it
occurred in some cities to such an extent that they were rendered
empty of almost all their inhabitants." Evagrius lost almost all the
members of his family in the first four waves of the pandemic to sweep
across Anatolia from 542 to 593.

Piracy and looting had started in the Late Roman Age and by the
mid-7th century the Arabs had built a fleet that challenged Byzantine
naval supremacy in the eastern Mediterranean. Their raids (7th-9th
centuries) for loot and slaves, as well as piracy from the seas,
eventually pretty much finished off Lycia, at least near the coast, as
populations moved inland, cut off from old trade routes.

Some cities, like Patara, still held on but were eventually reduced to
mere villages.  The Arab raids forced the town to retreat to a small
area on the edge of the harbor and to build walls to create a
protected inner port; by this time the town was very much shrunken.
Written records of the 9th century show that while Patara was still an
important place, it was a village.  In the 10th century is became a
naval base of the Byzantine Empire.  Its port is reported to have been
used through at least the 15th century and the Sultan Cem signed a
treaty there in 1478/9.  Church and chapel excavations point towards
even greater shrinkage of the village and an increase in poverty.
Eventually, with too little manpower to keep the sand out of the
harbor, it silted up, became plagued with mosquitoes and malaria and
that finished it off.

Like the rest of the ancient world, as Lycia declined, pieces of
buildings were dismantled for reuse in the construction of other
buildings, especially lead and iron spoila.  For example, the wall
surrounding the "Middle Ages City" at Patara is made of reused blocks.
In this example, column-drums and pieces of sarcophagi are used in a
wall on Tlos' acropolis. Some buildings were reworked, such as
Patara's Harbor Basilica which is built upon the remains of a temple,
using the temple's existing doors and columns. This occurred
throughout the ancient world; the early Christians often built
basilicas and churches over temples to erradicate them.  However, in
other places, the building over adequate pagan temples was shunned for
unknown reasons.  At Letoon, for example, there are three temples that
would have been adequate for the construction of a basilica, but a 6th
century basilica was instead built directly to the south of the
temples.  It is not known if this occurred due to distaste of the
surviving power of pagan belief or if the temples were not oriented in
the proper direction.

Other buildings (and perhaps statues) were used to make lime.  There
is a lime kiln at Patara next to the Harbor Bath that was used to turn
the bath's marble tiles into lime.  It is near a furnace that was used
used to melt down the braces that kept the marble tiles affixed to the
walls of the bath.  Another lime kiln is found on Patara's Tepecik
Acropolis.  Some very interesting things probably vanished into these
kilns.

Some pagan religious buildings were destroyed during Byzantine times
by zealous religious leaders in their effort to stamp out paganism
(which points to the surviving power of paganism during that time).
St. Nicholas, the 4th century AD bishop of Myra and the future Santa
Claus, had the renowned temple of Artemis in Myra - said to be the
most splendid building in Lycia - completely destroyed, as well as
many other temples in the area.  After his death, the church of
St. Nicholas became a popular pilgrimage center and attracting
pilgrims from home and abroad in all periods, even after his remains
of were stolen in 1087 AD and taken to Italy.

Ottoman buildings in Elmalı

The country lay almost uninhabited for several hundreds of years until
the Turks, led by the lords of the Teke Dynasty, settled the area in
the 13th century.  Many fine Turkish monuments of these people can be
seen today in highland towns such as Elmalı.  The area was known as
the "Uç" (frontier) - wilderness - and the Turks too mainly kept to
the high plateau and left the coast to pirates where they had
semi-permanent settlements (in fact, the coast wasn't cleaned up until
the presence of the British Navy in the 18th and 19th centuries
cleared the area).  Lawlessness and bandits were a problem throughout
the land.  At the turn of the 19th century the Ottoman government
began repopulating the coast with Greeks from the Aegean islands in
order to balance the power of the local feudal lords. Many coastal
towns like Kalkan (then called Kalamaki), the neighboring town of Kaş
(Andifli) and Livissi (now deserted) came into existence at this time
since the Aegean Greeks preferred to settle by the coast.  However,
Anatolian Greeks were required to leave Turkey and settle in Greece
after the war of 1919-1922 with the exchange of populations.

What happened to the remaining Lycians in Lycia?

The Lycians that remained in Lycia following its decline may have
intermarried with the Aegean Greeks who were resettled in Lycia in the
early 19th century; both groups were Orthodox Christian and spoke the
same language.  However, following the Turkish War of Independence in
which Greece (The Ottoman Empire had lost Greece as part of its
territory by this time) invaded Turkey in hope of a Greater Greece but
was repelled, the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne was drawn up in the peace
settlement.  This is a very sad part of history as both Greece and
Turkey agreed to a mutual exchange of populations, irrespective of
those populations’ wishes.  Greece expelled approximately 600,000
Turks, while the Turks expelled about 750,000 Anatolian Greeks (some
were allowed to stay in Istanbul).  These figures differ, depending on
the source. In deciding ethnicity, the criterion used was religion.  A
Turkish-speaking Orthodox Christian in Turkey was thus considered
Greek, and expelled to Greece, while a Greek-speaking Muslim who knew
no Turkish was considered Turkish and expelled to Turkey.  Those
expelled, even if they spoke the language of their new country, seldom
felt entirely at home in their new "national homeland" and rather felt
strong nostalgia for the "enemy" land that they had left behind, where
life had been for most, good.  Now they had to build new lives from
scratch.  With the departure of the Greeks, Turkey lost the skills of
an entire commercial and industrial middle class.

In some places in the ancient Lycia region, you may come across
abandoned houses that once belonged to the expelled Anatolian Greeks.
The largest abandoned area is the formerly prospering town of
Levissii, now known as Kayaköy (stone village), a Greek town near
Fethiye.  It is a haunting hillside settlement of some 2,000 buildings
- houses, shops and churches, with roofs, tiles and timber gone,
having been scavenged by nearby Turkish villagers.  Its 6,000
inhabitants were forced to re-settle in Greece.  Kayaköy's story is
told in Louis de Bernières’s epic novel Birds Without Wings.

The Anatolian Greeks from Kalkan (once a Greek fishing and trading
village) were resettled near Athens.  They were resettled as a
community (like most Greek immigrants from Turkey) and named their new
town "Kalamaki", after Kalkan's previous name.  The Greek buildings of
Kalkan and Kaş have fared much better than those of other places, due
to their location on the sea, and are protected and beautifully
preserved.  Kalkan's Greek buildings now form the "Old Town", the
centre of Kalkan where houses, shops, pensions and restaurants are
located - it is a charming area with bougainvillea-draped streets that
wind down to the harbour.  The rooftop dining on these restaurants
provide excellent views across the harbour to the islands.
