# Bloodshed and the Roman Empire

The worst cases of bloodshed in written history are all related one
way or another to Roman mindset.

I will skip genocides performed by Romans themselves in Carthege,
Gaul, Dacia where millions were killed. These were horrible events,
but this mindset still persists and did not die after Romans
disappeared from the world stage.

The Spanish Inquisition was horrific and was performed by Catholics
who are the descendants of the Roman culture. That the Spanish monarch
was in control of the events speaks volumes that the marriage between
a centralized ruler and a religion is a bad thing.

The Holocaust, a state-sponsored, systematic persecution and murder of
millions of Jews was organized by Adolf Hitler whose dream was to
bring back the "Roman Empire". Watch the hand salute, and the "Heil
Hitler" shit. The salute comes from Romans, "Heil Hitler" translates
to "Ave Ceasar". My thesis on this point is that modernity, industrial
mindset brought back the Ceasar-style centralization, enabled
maximization, concentration of people, production, and various methods
the state can use to further its agenda; and there is only a small
step you have to take, to go from mass production, mass consumption to
mass murder. The methods translate almost directly. If these methods
are in the hands of people with a filthy mindset (a.k.a. Roman), you
get Holocaust.

More? Armenians dying under Ottoman rule (it is speculated that Adolf
Hitler used Ottomans as an example saying [I paraphrase] 'see, noone
cared to what happened to them').

More? The terror created by Ottoman ruler Abdulhamid II in Ottoman
eastern provinces, which resulted in the region falling into mass
poverty, many Kurds, Armenians, Turks alike died.

More? Osama bin F..ing Laden. According to Bernard Lewis' What Went
Wrong? Bin Laden talks about a saddening point in time in history and
mentions the year 1918. Most people in the world do not know the
significance that year, but people in Asia Minor know it very well. It
is a great day (in my view) because it's the time when the Ottoman
Empire finally collapsed. Sadly what came in its place wasnt that
great either, but I am just glad that the old archaic structure
finally disappeared. Now what do we have here? Rome Version 3.0, which
represents another authrotic, despotic marriage between centralized
religion and state, this structure collapses and Bin Laden is SAD
ABOUT THAT.

This is the same Bin Laden who is responsible for thousands of deaths
in 9/11.

Do you see a pattern?
