# Namecoin

http://theumlaut.com/2014/02/05/namecoin-icann/

On Saturday, I registered [his site] elidourado.bit using Namecoin and
pointed it to the IP address of the webserver that hosts my
website. If you have access to a suitably-configured DNS server (or
know how to use a Namecoin proxy), when you browse to
http://elidourado.bit, it will redirect you to elidourado.com, the
canonical name of the site [..].

For an Internet governance nerd like me, this is exciting. Many of the
political battles over Internet governance have really been about the
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, which is the function of ICANN
that is nominally overseen by the US Department of Commerce. Although
much of the architecture of the Internet is decentralized, the domain
name system isn’t, and at the top of the hierarchy sit ICANN, IANA,
and the US government.

Actual US oversight of IANA is mostly theoretical—the US didn’t
interfere technically, for instance, when ICANN added .xxx to the list
of top-level domains even though the US opposed the move—but it has
nevertheless become a powerful symbol for other governments, all of
whom have come to rely on a resource that is theoretically under the
control of the US [..].

Namecoin is a fascinating substitute for the domain name system
because, like Bitcoin, it is completely decentralized and
censorship-resistant. Proposed censorship measures like SOPA and PIPA
simply could not apply to Namecoin because it is virtually impossible
to reverse or interfere with name registrations, which are enforced
with strong cryptography. New top-level-domains are added by the
consensus of the miners, just as Bitcoin miners must agree on the rate
of growth of Bitcoin’s money supply [..].

Namecoin is an impressive achievement. Zooko Wilcox-O’Hearn posited in
2001 that identifiers could not be simultaneously secure,
decentralized, and human-meaningful, an idea that came to be
represented in Zooko’s Triangle. With the advent of Namecoin, Zooko’s
Triangle has been broken. It is the first system in history that
achieves all three desirable properties of identifiers.

--

BTW, the Wikipedia entry on Namecoin says: 

"The internet activist Aaron Swartz [who commited suicide due to
overzealous US government officials] described a naming system based
on Bitcoin which tries to square Zooko's triangle by employing
Bitcoin's distributed blockchain as a proof-of-work to establish
consensus of domain name ownership. These systems [..] are secure
under Byzantine assumptions. A few months after the proposal, Namecoin
was released which implements the concept".

