# Black Holes or Burning Disks

[Wolfgang Kundt](https://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3151)

And how did those black holes form in the first place? Have not
centrifugal and pressure forces always exceeded the self attraction of
central galactic-mass accumulations? Why have the masses of the
observed central BHs decreased during cosmic epochs, from initial <=
10^9.5 M to their present-day <= 10^7M, as shown by the statistics of
the SDSSurvey (fig.4, Vestergaard et al 2008)? How could some of the
most massive ones already form within <= 0.8 Gyr after the Big Bang?
Why do their masses scale as 10^−2.85 times their bulge masses
(Marconi and Hunt 2003)? How do they blow their gigantic winds, and
why have those winds the chemistry of ashes from excessive nuclear
burning, being & 10^2-fold metal enriched (upto Fe)? How do they
generate their extremely hard spectra, (occasionally) peaking at &TeV
energies, even recorded (from PKS 2155-304) as minute-sharp,
hour-scale bursts (Weekes 2007), whilst accreting black holes
radiating at their Eddington rates are predicted to shine with
blackbody temperatures of KeV(M./M) 1/4 ?  Why are some of them
distinctly underluminous? Why does their high γ-ray compactness not
prevent them from forming jets, in the (10%) cases of their radio-loud
subpopulation, via inverse-Compton losses?  And, if all the
astrophysical jet sources are generated by a universal type of engine
– whose powerhouses are newly forming stars (like our Sun, in its
past), forming (binary) white dwarfs, binary neutron stars, and AGN –
this universal type of engine looks like a rotating magnet, not like a
[black hole]..

[Wolfgang Kundt](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10714-009-0815-9)

These [galaxy] centers should behave as flat stars, or as (nuclear-)
burning disks (BDs) [Kundt's alternative theory instead of black
holes]. Their radiative efficiencies should (i) easily exceed those of
BH accretors; they should have (ii) strongly variable outputs, and
(iii) generate relativistic pair plasma in their reconnecting
magnetized coronae, ready to drive jets; their burning (iv) produces
large quantities of nuclear ashes, in particular of iron (Turnshek
1988), and they should certainly (v) blow strong winds (and thereby
discharge in mass). And moreover, (vi) these BDs would conform with
the cosmic evolution of the AGN phenomenon plotted in fig.2: Their
masses would shrink with age – not grow with age, as BH masses must –
when they discharge efficiently, via their strong winds... BH
proponents are aware of the inconsistent (sign of) evolution.. of
course, but have forced it to agree with their expectation by using
words like ”downsizing”, ”antihierarchical”, ”co-evolution”, ”feedback
from SNe and AGN”, and the like; the BH paradigm must not be
sacrificed.

