# Dark Matter

[Pavel Kroupa](https://iai.tv/articles/dark-matter-doesnt-exist-auid-2180?_auid=2020)

The current cosmological model only works by postulating the existence
of dark matter – a substance that has never been detected, but that is
supposed to constitute approximately 25% of all the universe. But a
simple test suggests that dark matter does not in fact exist. If it
did, we would expect lighter galaxies orbiting heavier ones to be
slowed down by dark matter particles, but we detect no such
slow-down. A host of other observational tests support the conclusion:
dark matter is not there. The implications of this are nothing short
of a revision of Einstein’s theory of gravitation. Why the scientific
community is in denial about the falsification of the dark matter
model is a question that requires both a sociological and
philosophical explanation, argues Pavel Kroupa.

[Link](https://darkmattercrisis.wordpress.com/2022/06/18/70-the-list-of-flawed-mond-rebuttals/)

The List of Flawed Falsification Claims about MOND [modified theory of
Newton that can account data without dark matter hypothesis].. Modern
theories in physics need to be tested and, if they significantly fail
a test, discarded...

In this sense, the dark-matter based theories (case A above) have been
rigorously and robustly falsified to any high degree of standard in
the physical sciences (see previous and next post). What about MOND
(theory B above)? It too is a physical theory allowing predictions. It
too can be ruled out.

Srikanth Togere Nagesh has put a large effort to track down and
document the published falsifications of MOND. It turns out that the
claimed falsifications of MOND have all been shown, in the published
scientific research literature via rebuttals, to be flawed.

