# Not An Empire

Clyde Prestowitz, *Rogue Nation*

Washington, D.C., is one of America’s loveliest cities. Its broad
avenues, radiating from a central hub and punctuated by roundabouts
and graceful monuments and plazas, give the city a slightly European
air reflecting the taste of its original designer, the French urban
planner Pierre L’Enfant. Its size and modesty set it apart from the
capital cities of other great nations. With a population of less than
600,000, an area of just 68.25 square miles, and a legally mandated
absence of skyscrapers, Washington is a relatively small city by world
standards and lacks the powerful impact or awesome spread of a New
York or Los Angeles, the grandeur of Paris, or the dense intricacy of
Tokyo or London. [.. The] style of the city’s monuments as well as of
many of its public buildings establishes a linkage with the glories of
the classical past, specifically with great republics and republican
institutions, not with empires and imperial traditions.

Here are no monuments to conquests or conquerors. Washington has no
Arc de Triomphe, no Brandenburg Gate, no Buckingham Palace or
Forbidden City. The most visited monument commemorates the only war
America ever lost. Every day a steady stream of people somberly
descend the gentle slope of the Vietnam Memorial near the Reflecting
Pool to find the name of a friend, son, daughter, husband, wife, or
lover etched on the black granite walls listing the roll call of the
fallen. No general or admiral attracts such an endless flow of
visitors. In Peking or Vienna or Rome, you cannot avoid feeling [.. an
..] imperial tradition. Washington displays a humbler, simpler mien,
for it was never designed as the hub of an empire.

If you stroll from the Vietnam Memorial a few blocks up Constitution
Avenue toward the Capitol, you come to the Ellipse on your left; from
there you can see the rear of the White House. Though surely the
best-known residence-cum-office in the world, it is not impressive as
these things go. It pales in comparison to the 66,000 square foot
mansion Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates built himself on the shores of
Lake Washington, in Seattle. The grounds and gardens are pretty and
well maintained, but insignificant compared with the Rockefeller
estate in Pocantico Hills or the Emperor’s moated and forested
fortress in the center of Tokyo. Even more strikingly understated are
the White House offices. I was surprised on my first visit to the Oval
Office…at how small it is. Most CEOs of major corporations have a
bigger working space. Other offices in the White House are downright
laughable. The National Security Adviser, for example, barely has room
for a coffee table and a visitor’s chair, and his or her deputy has an
office that barely holds a desk. The White House was clearly never
intended to be a palace.

We Americans are schooled in an anti-imperialist, anti-militarist
tradition. We learn that our forefathers and foremothers came to this
land to escape the oppression, corruption, and power politics of
Europe’s monarchies and empires.
















