# Extraterrestrial

Avi Loeb

Oumuamua

For starters, prior to Oumuamua’s discovery, no confirmed interstellar
object had ever been observed in our own solar system. That alone made
Oumuamua historic, and it was enough to draw many astronomers’
attention..

And once we had our telescopes trained on Oumuamua, we looked for one
bit of information in particular: how Oumuamua reflected sunlight.
Our Sun acts like a lamppost that illuminates not only all the planets
orbiting it but every object that comes close enough.. [A]ny two
objects will rotate relative to each other when they pass... Anything
other than a sphere, however, will reflect the Sun’s light by varying
amounts as the object rotates. A football, for example, will reflect
more light when one of its long sides faces the Sun and less light
when, as it tumbles, its narrow sides face the Sun.  For
astrophysicists, an object’s changing brightness provides invaluable
clues to its shape. In the case of Oumuamua, the object’s brightness
varied tenfold every eight hours, which we deduced to be the amount of
time that it took to complete one full rotation. This dramatic
variability in its brightness told us that Oumuamua’s shape was
extreme, or at least five to ten times longer than it was wide.  This
would make Oumuamua’s geometry more extreme.. than the most extreme
asteroids or comets that we have ever seen...

[T]he object’s relatively small but extreme dimensions—with a length
at least five to ten times greater than its width—allowed only two
possible shapes. Our interstellar visitor was either elongated, like a
cigar, or flat, like a pancake.. Either way, Oumuamua was a
rarity. If it was elongated, we had never seen any naturally occurring
space object that size and that elongated; if it was flat, we had
never seen any naturally occurring space object that size and that
flat.

And there was more.. In addition to being small and oddly shaped,
Oumuamua was strangely luminous.. [with] levels of brightness similar
to a shiny metal.

Oumuamua.. trajectory deviated from what was expected based on the
Sun’s gravitational force alone. There was no obvious explanation for
why. This, for me, was the most eyebrow-raising bit of data..  The
universal laws of physics allow us to predict with certainty what a
given object’s trajectory should be as it speeds around the Sun. But
Oumuamua didn’t behave as we expected.

Comets [can] show a [similar] deviation.. The comet’s evaporating ice
acts like a jet that pushes the comet. Because of that rocket effect,
an outgassing comet can deviate from a path shaped by the Sun’s
gravitation alone. Indeed, when astronomers observe such a comet, we
can be precise. When we see an outgassing comet and measure the extent
of its deviation, we can calculate how much of the comet’s mass was
used up in giving it this extra push. But deep observations of the
space around Oumuamua did not reveal any trace of water, carbon-based
gases, or dust, ruling out the possibility that it was being pushed by
cometary vapor or visible dust particles. Moreover, it did not change
its spin rate as it should have if one-sided jets were pushing it
sideways, as they often do in comets...

And then there is the evidence that the extra force acting on
Oumuamua, the force that was causing it to deviate, declined in
inverse proportion to the square of Oumuamua’s distance from the
Sun. If the extra force were the result of outgassing, we would expect
a faster deceleration of an object as it rapidly distances itself from
the Sun.. When I read reports that the extra force on Oumuamua
declined inversely with the distance from the Sun squared, I wondered
what could be pushing it if not outgassing or disintegration. The only
explanation that came to mind was the sunlight bouncing off its
surface like wind off a thin sail.

<a name='junkscience'/>

String Theory, Multiverse, The Large Hadron Collider

I have long been aware that within the discipline of astronomy, SETI
faces hostility.. Mainstream theoretical physicists now widely accept
the study of extra-spatial dimensions beyond the three we are all
familiar with..  This is despite the fact that there is no evidence
for any such extra dimensions. Similarly, a hypothetical multiverse—an
infinite number of universes all existing simultaneously in which
everything that could conceivably happen is happening—occupies many of
our planet’s most admired minds, again despite the fact that there is
no evidence that such a thing is possible.

[P]hysicists [should] measure their success by how well their ideas
align with data rather than by how popular those ideas are.. But that
is not what we discover when we survey the landscape of theoretical
physics.  Fashions frequently dictate funding, sometimes despite
anything close to a commensurate return on investments.

Despite the absence of experimental evidence, the mathematical ideas
of supersymmetry, extra-spatial dimensions, string theory, Hawking
radiation, and the multiverse are considered irrefutable and
self-evident by the mainstream of theoretical physics. In the words of
a prominent physicist at a conference that I attended: “These ideas
must be true even without experimental tests to support them, because
thousands of physicists believe in them and it is difficult to imagine
that such a large community of mathematically gifted scientists could
be wrong.”

But go beyond the groupthink and look more closely at these ideas. For
instance, supersymmetry. This theory, which postulates that all
particles have partners, is not as natural as prominent theorists
predicted it would be. The latest data from the Large Hadron Collider
at CERN did not find any of the evidence expected at the energy scales
it probed to support supersymmetry.  Other speculative ideas
pertaining to the nature of dark matter, dark energy, extra
dimensions, and string theory have yet to be even tested.

Imagine that the data suggesting that Oumuamua is extraterrestrial
technology is stronger than the data suggesting supersymmetry theory
is valid. What might follow? Just a bit under five billion dollars was
spent to construct the Large Hadron Collider, a particle accelerator
built in hopes of attaining confirming evidence of supersymmetry, and
running it costs another one billion dollars a year. If the scientific
consensus eventually gives up on the theory, it will do so after vast
expense and generations of effort. Until we have invested similarly in
the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, flat declarations about
what Oumuamua is and isn’t should be judged accordingly.

A host of theories beyond supersymmetry—the multiverse leaps to mind—
are given thoughtful, respectful attention in and out of the academy
despite the absence of evidence for them. That should give us pause,
and not because of the absence of evidence. Rather, it should concern
us because of what it reveals about the scientific enterprise itself...

An earlier generation of theoretical physicists was open to the
humility of seeing their theories proven wrong by experimental
data. But a new culture, one that thrives in its own theoretical sauce
and exercises influence over award committees and funding agencies, is
populated by advocates of popular yet unproven paradigms. When
scientists double down on supersymmetry despite the Large Hadron
Collider finding no evidence for it or when they insist that the
multiverse must exist despite there being no data to support the
theory, they are wasting precious time and money and talent. And we
have not only finite funds to spend, but finite time...

A scientific culture that has not learned this lesson—that does not
require external verification in observable, confirmable data and that
advocates for ideas deemed inherently correct due to their
mathematical beauty—strikes me as a culture at risk of losing its
grounding. Getting data and comparing it to our theoretical ideas
provides a reality check and tells us that we are not
hallucinating. What is more, it reconfirms what is central to the
discipline.  Physics is not a recreational activity intended to make
us feel good about ourselves. Physics is a dialogue with nature, not a
monologue. We are supposed to have skin in the game and make testable
predictions, and this requires that scientists put themselves at risk
of error.

