# Ferming Over Farming, Lab-Grown Meat

[Link](https://amp.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2020/jan/08/lab-grown-food-destroy-farming-save-planet)

Lab-grown food will soon destroy farming – and save the planet..

It sounds like a miracle, but no great technological leaps were
required. In a commercial lab on the outskirts of Helsinki, I watched
scientists turn water into food. Through a porthole in a metal tank, I
could see a yellow froth churning. It’s a primordial soup of bacteria,
taken from the soil and multiplied in the laboratory, using hydrogen
extracted from water as its energy source. When the froth was siphoned
through a tangle of pipes and squirted on to heated rollers, it turned
into a rich yellow flour...

This flour is not yet licensed for sale. But the scientists, working
for a company called Solar Foods, were allowed to give me some while
filming our documentary *Apocalypse Cow*.

"Ferming is the new farming" 

[Wildtype](https://globetrender.com/2021/07/08/wildtype-sustainable-lab-grown-salmon-meat/)

"Wildtype is on a mission to create the “cleanest, most sustainable
seafood on the planet” – starting with salmon. Through 'cellular
agriculture', it’s creating 'sushi-grade' cuts of salmon by raising
cells from Pacific salmon in bioreactors, where they are programmed to
organise and mature in the same way that they would within the fish.

Aryé Elfenbein, cardiologist and co-founder of Wildtype, compares the
mechanics to that of a brewery. Not only will Wildtype salmon be
healthier for humans (it won’t contain any microplastics, mercury or
parasites) but it will be better for the planet, too, because it will
be produced in “closed, animal-free systems designed to keep fish in
the water and out of farms”. It will also be far less cruel"

<a name='fat'/>

Lab-grown Fat, Hoxton Farms

Cultivating animal fat for plant-based meat: ‘Nobody wants a burger
that tastes of coconut’

Hoxton Farms says plant-based meat alternatives are missing 'one
crucial ingredient': fat.. [S]tart-up Hoxton Farms is cultivating
animal fat for plant-based meat alternatives. What is the secret to
the duo’s competitive edge? Computational biology, the founders tell
FoodNavigator. The global meat market is worth some 1.3trn. The newer,
plant-based meat alternative market is valued around the 4.3bn
mark. Yet despite their sizeable values, entrepreneurs Ed Steele and
Dr Max Jamilly say both industries have serious flaws. “The global
meat market is broken. It’s killing us, it’s killing the planet,” ​said
Dr Jamilly.“2020 was a great example of how global food security is at
an all-time low.

Food supply is fragile and traditional intensive agriculture has a big
role in the spread of animal-borne disease, antibiotic resistance, and
its enormous impact on climate.”​ ​While demand for plant-based meat
alternatives is ‘soaring’ – MarketsandMarkets expects the sector to be
worth $8.3bn by 2025 – the duo ‘firmly believes’ that plant-based meat
alternatives ‘still aren’t good enough’.“And that’s because it is
missing this one crucial ingredient, which is fat.” ​Dr Jamilly told
FoodNavigator. “And that’s where we come in.” ​The plant oil problem:
‘Nobody wants a burger that tastes of coconut’​The duo’s start-up,
Hoxton Farms, makes cell-based animal fat. Its initial goal is to sell
its cultivated offering to plant-based meat companies as a replacement
of vegetable oil.

In doing so, industry can ‘finally’ replace plant oils and create meat
alternatives that ‘look, cook and taste just as good as the real
thing’, said Dr Jamilly, ‘if not better’.So what is Hoxton Farms' beef
with plant-based oils? According to the co-founder, plant-based oils
can be detrimental to the environment and underperform on taste and
functionality. “People have been trying to get plant oils to perform
like animal fat for over 150 years, since the French invented
margarine, and we haven’t gone far beyond that in the intervening
time. The problem is that plant oils are very bad for the environment
– unsustainably sourced palm oil and coconut oil in particular – and
they have the wrong taste,” ​said Dr Jamilly. “Nobody wants a burger
that tastes of coconut. Plant oils have a low melting temperature,
which can make the finished product greasy rather than juicy, says
Hoxton Farms. From a functionality perspective, Hoxton Farms also find
plant oils lacking. “Their melting temperature is very low, which
means that if the fat hasn’t melted out of the product on the
supermarket shelves, then it definitely does when you put it in the
pan or the oven,” ​the co-founder continued. This can result in a
greasy, rather than juicy, sensation. “And that’s not to mention the
health impact of plant oils, and the fact that to cover up their
taste, plant-based meat contains a huge amount of salt and other
flavourings.”​..

Hoxton Farms' response to these ‘unsatisfactory’ plant-based fats is
to do somewhat of a U-turn and focus on animal fats.“Animal fats,
because of their structure and chemical properties, have a much better
melting temperature which makes them really juicy. They also have a
better taste, and that’s what we’re trying to deliver,” ​explained Dr
Jamilly.

Rather than use plant oils, which the co-founder described as a ‘dodgy
substitute’, Hoxton Farms suggests food makers use its cultivated
animal fat. “It’s a product we know and love, and is the most
important sensory component of the meat we eat.​“But we’re producing it
with none of the ethical or environmental hang-ups of traditional
meat.”​ Hoxton Farms' first product is a versatile cultured fat
intended for a variety of products. What is particularly exciting
about the technology, fellow co-founder Steele explained, is its
ability to meet customisation demands.“By feeding the fat cells
something different, we can get them to essentially create different
fats inside the cells. This means that we end up with different
flavours and taste compositions, for example, or different nutritional
profiles, densities, and melting properties – all of which are really
important to plant-based meat companies.

<a name='fat2'/>

[Link](https://www.foodnavigator-usa.com/Article/2022/03/03/Fat-the-final-frontier-for-meat-alternatives-Designer-fat-co-Lypid-raises-4m-to-commercialize-microencapsulated-vegan-oils-that-behave-like-animal-fat)

Lab-grown Fat, Lypid

Most plant-based burgers currently on the market include a hard fat
such as coconut oil, which is high in saturated fat, doesn’t taste
like animal fat, and melts when the burger starts cooking, leaking out
of the food matrix.

As a result, the race is on to find alternatives with better
functionality, flavor, and environmental credentials, with some
foodtech startups such Yali Bio​, Zero Acre Farms​, c16 Biosciences​,​ and
Nourish ​producing animal-like fats via engineered microbes; while
others such as Mission Barns​ are creating ‘real’ animal fat (without
animals) in bioreactors from animal cells (although this would clearly
compromise a burger's 100% plant-based credentials).

Motif FoodWorks​ meanwhile, is developing oleogels that trap liquid
oils within an ethyl cellulose scaffold to create fats that can be
co-extruded with plant-based proteins, creating a “ veining and
marbling effect" emulating conventional meat.

Sunnyvale-based startup Lypid​, by contrast, is taking a different
approach, microencapsulating liquid plant oils in water to create
spongy fats with very high melting points, co-founder Dr Jen-Yu Huang
told FoodNavigator- USA.

“ The challenge is that vegan fats - even harder ones like coconut oil -
actually still have a very low melting point, so the appearance
after cooking isn’t right and the texture isn’t right as the oil leaks
out.”

PhytoFat, however, maintains its animal fat-like qualities when heated
above 165 C, keeping more fat in a burger as it cooks, claimed Huang,
who said the seed round - led by Green Generation Fund with additional
support from Big Idea Ventures, SOSV’s IndieBio, and others - would
help Lypid scale up manufacturing, with the longer-term plan to
produce up to 10 tons of PhytoFat per year.

