# The H2 Revolution

<a name='deaths'/>

If we hadn’t had Covid-19, 2020 would be remembered for the Australian
bushfire disaster, which killed thirty- four people and more than
three billion animals, and for the unprecedented 8wildfires in Brazil
and California..

Yes, renewable electricity was making great strides, but electricity
only accounts for 20% of our energy use. Even if we cleaned all of
that up completely, using the sun and wind to generate clean
electrons, we would still have the other 80% of the energy system to
worry about. That’s the energy we use in transport, industry and
heating, which today rely mainly on molecules from coal, oil and
natural gas...

<a name='electrif'/>

But there’s a limit to how much of the energy system we can switch to
renewable electricity. Some sectors, such as heavy transport, industry
and winter heating are particularly difficult for electricity to fully
penetrate. The International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), sees
electricity rising to just under 50% of the energy mix by 2050, which
is wonderful, but still leaves another 50% to worry about. If we are
serious about avoiding catastrophe, we need other technologies as well
as renewable electricity – and we need them fast..

The model [forecasting an energy mix for a clean future] was
forecasting that there was going to be a lot of cheap hydrogen for us
to use because the cost of the renewable power used to make it was
dropping fast, as was the cost of the equipment required to convert
electricity into hydrogen. Transport costs were also assumed to be low
because it would be delivered through already existing natural gas
pipelines.  All in all, the model predicted that by 2050 hydrogen
would not only be the cheapest source of decarbonised energy for many
sectors, it would actually be cheaper than what we are paying today
for oil, coal and nuclear power.

That was a lightbulb moment, for me. I realised that hydrogen’s true
mission was to help us harvest sunlight and wind where they were in
plentiful supply, transport them cheaply, and get them into our
aeroplanes, factories and homes. Just 1% of the Sahara Desert gets
enough sunlight to power the whole world 3 and hydrogen could finally
give us a way to unlock that potential and decarbonise the
hard-to-electrify sectors at the same time.  Moreover, many people
thought that the energy transition would mean rising energy costs and
a need to support developing countries with billions of dollars. But
the combination of cheap renewables and hydrogen meant we could
envisage a net-zero world where energy was cheaper than it is today..

According to the World Health Organization (WHO), ambient air
pollution kills more than 4 million people every year – twice as many
as Covid-19 killed in 2020, and twice as many as are killed every year
by malaria and tuberculosis combined..

<a name='peros'/>

One fast-improving solar technology uses perovskites, crystal
structures first discovered in the Ural Mountains in 1839, which will
reduce the cost of converting solar power into electricity. Films much
thinner than a human hair can be made inexpensively from solution,
allowing them to be easily applied as a coating to buildings, cars or
even clothing. Painted on a substrate, or printed using an inkjet-like
printer, they make an instant photovoltaic device. Perovskites also
work better than silicon on cloudy days and even indoors. If the cost
of this new technology falls far enough, solar power generation could
unobtrusively move into our cities...

The remarkable rise of renewables is great news, but we can’t simply
use clean electricity for everything we do. Solar and wind power are
not constant. Batteries and other storage systems are limited,
especially in the face of seasonal energy needs. In some industries
and long-range transport, direct electrification just won’t
work. Renewables are going to need a partner..

<a name='lion'/>

Lithium-ion batteries have improved a lot.. but still they don’t hold
much energy for a given weight. A kilogram of gasoline holds 13
kilowatt-hours (kWh) of energy; a kilogram of lithium-ion battery
holds less than 0.3 kWh. This means electricity isn’t going to be the
best way of powering sectors which need to take lots of energy with
them. Just think of long-haul flying: we would need so many heavy
batteries that the plane wouldn’t be able to take off. And batteries
won’t compete with molecules to propel cargo ships across
oceans. While for shorter distances battery-powered trucks look like a
hot contender, for long-distance trucking, the amount of space and
weight that the batteries would add (and the difficulty of charging
them quickly) makes it hard to imagine their widespread use...

<a name='grid'/>

Up to 8% of generated electricity is lost between the power station
and your home. You can actually hear this happening if you’re close to
a high- voltage power line – it’s that fizzing, crackling sound. You
can also see it happening: as the metal cables heat up they expand,
and begin to sag in the middle. That accounts for about a quarter of
the energy lost. The other three quarters are lost, rather less
spectacularly in the lower-voltage lines to our homes.  These losses
have never seemed too onerous, because we’ve learned not to transport
electricity very far. In Italy, we are on average 25 km away from our
nearest power station. By contrast, we are something like 1,000 km
away from our main natural gas supplier, because it takes little
energy to push gas through a pipeline [it will be same for H2]...

[O]ur hunger for renewable power means we will need to look further
and further afield for our supply – especially if locally there are
land constraint issues, or difficulties in reaching the required scale
in renewable production in the required timescale. We are also going
to want to access the cheapest places to produce renewables. That
makes importing renewables an interesting idea. The question is how
best to do so. High-voltage alternating current, as we’ve seen, loses
energy along the way...

Intermittency is a challenge because the grid must always balance
demand and supply... Almost as soon as you stop pushing, the current
stops.  So one hungry customer’s sudden demand for electricity has to
be met more or less instantly, or else a brownout – a serious
reduction in voltage – hits every customer fed by the same power
line. * That contrasts with a gas network. When you put natural gas in
pipelines, you can vary the pressure so as to pack it in more or less
tightly, meaning that you have lots of flexibility to satisfy demand
fluctuations without resorting to additional generation or storage
[same with H2 pipeplines].

[M]ost pumped hydro schemes need mountain lakes to site their upper
reservoir, and such places are scarce. Smaller still is the number of
such places you would want to build on: pumped hydro and areas of
outstanding natural beauty are not a good mix. And, even if companies
were to get permission and acceptance from local communities, who
typically rely on the same water or land for their own benefit,
construction is not particularly cheap...

Batteries have other shortcomings. They are made out of metals which
are, today, extracted and processed in a limited number of locations.
On top of this, lithium mining requires large amounts of water in
often arid locations, and can lead to contamination of soils and
rivers. And batteries are difficult to recycle well, so they may end
up in landfill instead of being recycled at all, leading to more
contamination...

But seasonality is a huge hurdle to full electrification. For the
colossal amounts of energy needed to balance the grid across seasons,
batteries are no use. They would be ruinously expensive. Europe
consumes about 5,300 TWh each year for heating and cooling, most of it
in the winter.

As we saw when looking at intermittency, the cost of storing energy in
batteries is something like $120/MWh if you are charging and discharging
over 300 times a year. If you want to store energy in July and release it in
December, that would only be one cycle a year, which means the cost of
electricity coming out of the battery could be hundreds of times the quoted
figure. And if batteries are a no-go, so is pumped storage. There aren’t
enough suitable mountain lakes to cover our seasonal swings...

The vision of an economy powered entirely and directly by green
electricity has taken a fair number of knocks in the last few years,
with net zero targets forcing us to think through all of the
challenges of full electrification...

[We need] something that takes the spare solar power from the summer
and stores it for winter, and provides dispatchable generation when
needed. Something that can be transported like gas, linking regions
and seasons, and allowing us to tap the desert sun and mid-ocean wind,
wherever renewable power is most efficient and we have the most space
to put it. Something that can be delivered through existing, robust
gas infrastructure, reducing the need for massive new investments in
the electricity grid. Something that can reach those
hard-to-decarbonise sectors, which require different forms of energy.

We need a molecule.

