# The End of the World is Just the Beginning

Peter Zeihan

Between 1500 and 1778, France suffered several national famines (and
dozens of regional famines). Yes, that France—the country that has
been Europe’s largest and most reliable food producer stretching back
a millennium, the country that has three SEPARATE agricultural
regions, the country that had, bar none, the best internal transport
system of the preindustrial world.

Moving things overland *sucks*.

So we figured out how to move stuff a different way. We figured out how
to float.

While a camel could move a quarter ton and ox-drawn carts around a
ton, even the earliest bulk ships could move several hundred tons at a
fraction of the price per ton. The Romans famously imported most of
their capital’s food from Egypt. Remember those
better-than-world-class Roman roads? In 300 CE it cost more to move
grain 70 miles on those roads than it did to sail it some 1,400 miles
from Egypt to Rome. The economics of water transport were so lopsided
that some cultures (see: government; Dutch, Aztec, Chinese) would
rearrange their entire governing systems around the capacity to
mobilize labor to dig canals stretching hundreds of miles through
rocky, undulating landscapes with little more than stone picks. All to
float what was the pinnacle of human transport technology well into
the second millennium CE: the lowly barge.

<a name='untouchables'/>

The Untouchables

Human poo proved to be one of the best fertilizer and growth mediums
not just in the pre-civilized world, but right up until the mass
introduction of chemical fertilizers in the mid-nineteenth century—and
in some parts of the world, even today. Managing poo introduced us to
some of our first class- based distinctions. After all, no one really
wanted to gather and inventory and distribute and . . . apply the
stuff. It is part of why India’s Untouchables were/are so
. . . untouchable—they did the messy work of collecting and
distributing “night soil.”

<a name='silicon'/>

Silicon

[T]he absolute lowest grade for silicon as an actual industrial input
is 99.95 percent pure.  Getting there requires a blast furnace, which
typically requires a lot of coal.  Overall, the process isn’t all that
complicated—you basically just bake the quartz until anything that is
not silicon burns away—which means some 90 percent of this firststep
processing tends to be done in countries like Russia and China,
countries with a lot of surplus industrial capacity that don’t give
two shits about environmental issues...

The 99.95 percent purity of “standard” silicon isn’t anywhere enough
[for solar panels]. A second round in the blast furnace gets the
silicon up to 99.99999 percent pure. * Round two is far more
sophisticated than round one’s bake-it-pure. China’s GCL Group is the
only Chinese entity that can manage such precision at scale, making it
responsible for one-third of global supply. The rest comes from a
smattering of developed-world companies.  This pure silicon is
incorporated into the solar cells that make solar panels do their
thing, with the assembly work more often than not done in China.
