# Vertical Farming

[Link](https://www.thebalancesmb.com/what-you-should-know-about-vertical-farming-4144786)

"Vertical farming is the practice of producing food on vertically
inclined surfaces. Instead of farming vegetables and other foods on a
single level, such as in a field or a greenhouse, this method produces
foods in vertically stacked layers commonly integrated into other
structures like a skyscraper, shipping container or repurposed
warehouse...

Instead of soil, aeroponic, aquaponic or hydroponic growing mediums
are used. Peat moss or coconut husks and similar non-soil mediums are
very common in vertical farming. Finally, the vertical farming method
uses various sustainability features to offset the energy cost of
farming. In fact, vertical farming uses 95% less water"

[[-]](https://www.plugandplaytechcenter.com/resources/indoor-vertical-farming-new-era-agriculture/)

"As the world’s population grows exponentially, our total supply of
fruits and vegetables is falling 22% short of global nutritional
needs. Traditional farming methods are having difficulties meeting
this demand as it faces increasing problems such as water shortage,
land scarcity.. In recent years, controlled environment agriculture
has experienced a surge of popularity as it presents a compelling
solution to all these problems and more. Indoor vertical farming can
increase crop yields, overcome limited land area...

Vertical farms are unique in that some setups don’t require soil for
plants to grow. Most are either hydroponic, where vegetables is grown
in a nutrient-dense bowl of water, or aeroponic, where the plant roots
are systematically sprayed with water and nutrients. In lieu of
natural sunlight, artificial grow lights are used...

Recent technological advances in the agriculture space allow vertical
farms to control every aspect of growing crops. Variables such as
light, humidity, and water can all be precisely measured year
round. Since crops are no longer reliant on weather patterns,
temperatures, or daylight, this means produce can be reliably grown
24/7...

Labor has always been a pain point in agriculture..  Vertical farming
can significantly reduce labor needs, and therefore cost, by using
robots to handle harvesting, planting, and logistics...

Vertical farms are built to optimize energy conservation by
significantly reducing water and energy usage. Studies show that
vertical farms use up to 70% less water than traditional farms..

Since indoor vertical farms are completely sealed off from the outside
environment, there are virtually no pests. As a result, there is
virtually no need for pesticides or herbicides. Food grown is
healthier, safer, and certified organic, making it even more appealing
to consumers"

