# Nations and Nationalism

Ernest Gellner

Nationalism is rooted in a certain kind of division of labour [..]
Perpetually growing productivity requires that this division be not
merely complex, but also perpetually, and often rapidly,
changing. This rapid and continuous change both of the economic role
system itself and of the occupancy of places within it, has certain
immediate and profoundly important consequences. Men located within it
cannot generally rest in the same niches all their lives; and they can
only seldom rest in them, so to speak, over generations [..]

The immediate consequence of this new kind of mobility is a certain
kind of egalitarianism. [Modern society ..] has to be mobile whether
it wishes to be so or not [.. Also] a society which is destined to a
permanent game of musical chairs cannot erect deep barriers of rank,
of caste or estate, between the various sets of chairs which it
possesses. That would hamper the mobility, and, given the mobility,
would indeed lead to intolerable tensions. Men can tolerate terrible
inequalities, if they are stable and hallowed by custom. But in a
hectically mobile society, custom has no time to hallow anything [..].

Some of the [expertise] of a mature agrarian society [were] extreme:
they will be the fruits of lifelong, very prolonged and totally
dedicated training, which may have commenced in early youth and
required an almost complete renunciation of other concerns. The
achievements of craft and art production in these societies are
extremely labour-and skill-intensive, and often reach levels of
intricacy and perfection never remotely equalled by anything later
attained by industrial societies, whose domestic arts and decorations,
gastronomy, tools and adornments are notoriously shoddy [..].

[Let's] compare in detail the division of labour in a highly advanced
agrarian society with that of an average industrial one. Every kind of
function, for instance now has at least one kind of specialist
associated with it. Car mechanics are becoming specialized in terms of
the make of car they service. The industrial society will have a
larger population, and probably, by most natural ways of counting, a
larger number of different jobs. In that sense, the division of labour
has been pushed much further within it. But by some criteria, it may
well be that a fully developed agrarian society actually has the more
complex division of labour. The specialisms within it are more distant
from each other [..]

The difference is this: the major part of training in industrial
society is generic training, not specifically connected with the
highly specialized professional activity of the person in question,
and preceding it. Industrial society may by most criteria be the most
highly specialized society ever; but its educational system is
unquestionably the least specialized, the most universally
standardized, that has ever existed. The same kind of training or
education is given to all or most children and adolescents up to an
astonishingly late age [..].

Work, in industrial society, does not mean moving matter. The paradigm
of work is no longer ploughing, reaping, thrashing. Work, in the main,
is no longer the manipulation of things [..] It generally involves
[..] manipulating the controls of a machine [..] Most jobs, if not
actually involving work 'with people', involve the control of buttons
or switches or leavers which need to be understood, and are
explicable, once again, in some standard idiom intelligible to all
comers.

[These idioms are based on the ability to generate / understand
explicit, context-free messages, and such generic 'knowledge' needs to
be taught]

The level of literacy and technical competence, in a standardized
medium, a common conceptual currency, which is required of members of
this society if they are to be properly employable and enjoy full and
effective moral citizenship [..] simply cannot be provided by the kin
or local units, such as they are. It can only be provided by something
resembling a modern 'national' educational system, a pyramid at whose
base there are primary schools, staffed by teachers trained at
secondary schools, staffed by university-trained teachers, led by the
products of advanced graduate schools. Such a pyramid provides the
criterion for the minimum size for a viable political unit [..]

The fact that sub-units of society are no longer capable of
self-reproduction, that centralized exo-education is the obligatory
norm, that such education complements (though it does not wholly
replace) localized acculturation, is of the very first importance for
the political sociology of the modern world, and its implications
have, strangely enough, been seldom understood or appreciated or even
examined [..] The monopoly of legitimate education is now more
important, more central than is the monopoly of legitimate
violence. When this is understood, then the imperative of nationalism,
its roots, not in human nature as such, but in a certain kind of
[previously] pervasive social order, can also be understood.

Let us recapitulate the general and central fearures of industrial
society. Universal literacy and [a] level of numerical, technical and
general sophistication are among its functional prerequisites. Its
members are and must be mobile, and ready to shift from one activity
to another, and must possess that generic training which enables them
to follow the manuals and instructions of a new activity or
occupation. In the course of their work they must constantly
communicate with a large number of other men, with whom they
frequently have no previous association, and with whom communication
must consequently be explicit, rather than relying on context.

They must also be able to communicate by means of written, impersonal,
context-free, to-whom-it-may-concern type messages. Hence these
communications must be in the same shared and standardized linguistic
medium and script. The educational system which guarantees this social
achievement becomes large and is indispensable, but at the same time
it no longer possesses monopoly of access to the written word: its
clientele is co-extensive with the society at large, and the
replaceability of individuals within the system by others applies to
the educational machine at least as much as to any other segment of
society,and perhaps more so. Some very great teachers and researchers
may perhaps be unique and irreplaceable, but the average professor and
schoolmaster can be replaced from outside the teaching profession with
the greatest of ease and often with little, if any, loss.

What are the implications of all this for the society and for its
members? The employability, dignity, security and self-respect of 
individuals, typically, and for the majority of men now hinges on
their education; and the limits of the culture within which they were
educated are also the limits of the world within which they can,
morally and professionally, breathe. A man's education is by far his
most precious investment, and in effect confers his identity on
him. Modern man is not loyal to a monarch or a land or a faith,
whatever  he may say, but to a culture. And he is, generally speaking,
gelded.  The Mamluk condition has become universal. No important links
bind him to a kin group; nor do they stand between him and a wide,
anonymous community of culture [..].

The teacher class is now in a sense more important - it is
indispensable - and in other sense much less so, having lost its
monopoly of access to the cultural wisdom enshrined in scripture. In a
society in which everyone is gelded by indentification with his
professional post and his training, and hardly anyone derives much or
any security and support from whatever kin links he may have, the
teaching clerics no longer possess any privileged access to
administrative posts. When everyone has become a Mamluk, no special
mamluk class predominates in the bureaucracy. At long last the
bureaucracy can recruit from the population at large, without needing
to fear the amval of dozens of cousins as unwanted attachments of each
single new entrant [..].

[Then] culture is no longer merely the adornment, confirmation and
legitimation of a social order which was also sustained by harsher and
coercive constraints; culture is now the necessary shared medium, the
life-blood or perhaps rather the minimal shared atmosphere, within
which alone the members of the society can breathe and survive and
produce. For a given society, it must be one in which they can all
breathe and speak and produce; so it must be the same
culture. Moreover, it must now be a great or high (literate,
training-sustained) culture, and it can no longer be a diversified,
locality-tied, illiterate little culture or tradition.

[I claim] that nationalism is a very distinctive species of
patriotism, and one which becomes pervasive and dominant only under
certain social conditions, which in fact prevail in the modern world,
and nowhere else. Nationalism is a species of patriotism distinguished
by a few very important features: the units which this kind of
patriotism, namely nationalism, favours with its loyalty, are
culturally homogeneous, based on a culture striving to be a high
(literate) culture; they are large enough to sustain the hope of
supporting the educational system which can keep a literate culture
going; they are poorly endowed with rigid internal sub-groupings;
their populations are anonymous, fluid and mobile, and they are
unmediated; the individual belongs to them directly, in virtue of his
cultural style, and not in virtue of membership of nested
sub-groups. Homogeneity, literacy, anonymity are the key traits.

[W]hen general social conditions make for standardized, homogeneous,
centrally sustained high cultures, pervading entire populations [..] a
situation arises in which well-defined educationally sanctioned and
unified cultures constitute very nearly the only kind of unit with
which men willingly and often ardently identify. The cultures now seem
to be the natural repositories of political legitimacy [during modern
times]. Only then does it come to appear that any defiance of their
boundaries by political units constitutes scandal.

Under these conditions, [and] under these conditions only, nations can
indeed be defined in terms both of will and of culture, and indeed in
terms of the convergence of them both with political units. In these
conditions, men will to be politically united with all  those, and
only those, who share their culture. Polities then will to extend
their boundaries to the limits of their cultures, and to protect and
impose their culture with the boundaries of their power. The fusion of
will, culture and polity becomes the norm [.. but] these conditions do
not define the human situation as such, but merely its industrial
variant [..].

<a name='invention'/>

Nationalism is not what it seems, and above all it is not what it
seems to itself. The cultures it claims to defend and revive are often
its own inventions, or are modified out of all recognition. [.. While
it is being created] nationalism uses the pre-existing, historically
inherited proliferation of cultures or cultural wealth, though it uses
them very selectively, and it most often transforms them
radically. Dead languages can be revived, traditions invented, quite
fictitious pristine purities restored [..]. The cultural shreds and
patches used by nationalism are often arbitrary historical
inventions. Any old shred and patch would have served as well [..].

[Then nationalist] societies worship themselves brazenly and openly.

But nationalism has its own amnesias and selections which, even when
they may be severely secular, can be profoundly distorting and
deceptive.

The basic deception and self-deception practised by nationalism is
this: nationalism is, essentially, the general imposition of a high
culture on society, where previously low cultures had taken up the
lives of the majority, and in some cases of the totality, of the
population. It means that generalized diffusion of a school-mediated,
academy-supervised idiom, codified for the requirements of reasonably
precise bureaucratic and technological communication. It is the
establishment of an anonymous, impersonal society, with mutually
substitutable atomized individuals, held together above all by a
shared culture of this kind, in place of a previous complex structure
of local groups, sustained by folk cultures reproduced locally and
idiosyncratically by the micro-groups themselves. That is what
*really* happens.

But this is the very opposite of what nationalism affirms and what
nationalists fervently believe. Nationalism usually conquers in the
name of a putative folk culture. Its symbolism is drawn from the
healthy, pristine, vigorous life of the peasants, of the Volk, the 
narod. There is a certain element of truth in the nationalist
self-presentation when the narod or Volk is ruled by officials of
another, an alien high culture, whose oppression must be resisted
first by a cultural revival and reaffirmation, and eventually by a war
of national liberation. If the nationalism prospers it eliminates the
alien high culture, but it does not then replace it by the old local
low culture; it revives, or invents, a local high (literate,
specialist-transmitted) culture of its own, though admittedly one
which will have some links with the earlier local folk styles and
dialects [on the surface].

The transition from agrarian to industrial society has a kind of
entropy quality, a shift from pattern to systematic
randomness. [Industrial society's] territorial and work units are
adhoc: membership is fluid, has a great turnover, and does not
generally engage or commit the loyalty and identity of members. In
brief, the old structures are dissipated and largely replaced by an
internally random and fluid totality, within which there is not much
(certainly when compared with the preceding agrarian society) by way
of genuine sub-structures. There is very little in the way of any
effective, binding organization at any level between the individual
and the total community [..].

But an important point is brought out by stressing the need for this
random-seeming, entropic mobility and distribution of individuals in
this kind of society. Within it, though sub-communities are partly
eroded, and their moral authority is much weakened, nevertheless
people continue to differ in all kinds of ways.  People can be
categorized as tall and short, as fat and thin, dark and light, and in
many other ways. Clearly, there is simply no limit to the number of
ways in which people can be classified. Most of the possible
classifications will be of no interest whatever. But some of them
become socially and politically very important. They are those which I
am tempted to call entropy-resistant.

A classification is entropy-resistant if it is based on an attribute
which has a marked tendency not to become, even with the passage of
time since the initial establishment of an industrial society, evenly
dispersed throughout the entire society. In such an entropy-resistant
case, those individuals who are characterized by the trait in question
tend to be concentrated in one part or on the totality of society. The
rest of this argument can now easily be anticipated: entropy-resistant
traits constitute a very serious problem for industrial society.

