# Rise of the Info-States

Edging toward the sweet spot of new-century governance, the 
info-state represents a growing number of dynamic and entrepreneurial 
cities, city-states or small nations scattered around the world that 
govern as much through data as via democracy [..]

Building on this logic of the economic over the political, Philip 
Bobbitt’s Shield of Achilles (2002) traced the advent of the ‘market 
state’ era, in which the maximization of individual commercial 
opportunity defines national power and success. Japanese business 
strategist Kenichi Ohmae then set the stage for the info-state era in 
The Next Global Stage (2005), which argued that urban agglomerations of 
city-states resembling the medieval Hanseatic League would become the 
world’s power centres [..].

[T]he info-state also presents new mutations that were not 
conceivable in previous technological periods – a peculiar convergence 
of the Information Age and the devolved authority of city units and 
clusters. The critical shift lies in the manner of policy-making enabled
 by new technologies: governance is practiced in ‘real-time’ – through 
constant consultation, rather than through traditional, staggered 
democratic deliberation. In a sense, this is a post-modern democracy – 
or even ‘post-democracy’ [..].

Already there are notable info-states across several continents and 
cultural zones, underscoring how this is already a worldwide phenomenon 
set to grow at the intersection of technological spread and pragmatic 
governance. New York City, for example, [.. has] undertaken to bolster its own security and intelligence capabilities, 
and then to diversify into IT and bio-sciences research – thereby 
becoming the US’s second technology hub after Silicon Valley. 
Switzerland is in effect a ‘cities-state’ – a conglomeration of 
specialized centres in banking, research, engineering, hospitality and 
other sectors. Israel has also made economic diversification into 
technology sectors a national priority, distributing so much funding for
 small-scale entrepreneurs that it has earned the title ‘start-up 
nation.’ 















