# When Teachers Go Viral

Here’s the future of college: Most degrees will be granted online, the 
best teachers will become rock stars, and eventually students become 
largely untethered. They will demand that universities let them mix and 
match courses from any school [..].

It appears that the best way for colleges to generate revenue online 
will be the freemium model. Anyone can view videos of the courses and 
perhaps participate on the message board at no charge. To get class 
credit and a teaching assistant to hand-grade the work that can’t be 
graded via software, you’ll need to pay. To get the teacher to grade 
your papers, you’ll have to pay much, much more. But as Pat Quilter of 
Quilter Labs says, “Who knows? Maybe students would actually take 
courses, life-long, to learn, instead of just to get a degree.” [..].

If the universities are smart they will share this revenue with the 
teachers. Most American students won’t choose the pay-for-office-hours 
option, but it will be a high-priced add-on that will still generate 
significant revenue from wealthy Chinese and Russian parents who are 
accustomed to paying obscene amounts in bribes to officials at every 
level in the bureaucracy just to get baseline services. In Shanghai some
 kindergarten teachers are demanding $10,000 “gifts” for school 
admission. How much do you think those parents will pay for the top MBA 
faculty[..] ?

It’s the rock star teachers that will prove to be the most interesting 
case, and by far the most lucrative for the university. All online 
classes will be reviewed and scored at closely followed ratings sites 
whose popularity will dwarf that of the fatally flawed but currently 
influential US News and World Report’s college ratings guide.

The hottest teachers will go viral within a year or two at Ivy League 
schools, and in three to five years at less prestigious institutions. 
Their classes will burgeon in popularity among paying students. The 
universities will be forced to hire armies of teaching assistants to 
grade work [..]

For evergreen subjects like statistics, history, or literature some 
teachers will remain popular after they die or quit teaching the course.
 There will be diminished value because they won’t or can’t score papers
 or participate on the message boards. Highly rated teachers assistants 
will have long twilight careers as known disciples [..]

As it becomes clear that rock star teachers can pop up anywhere, 
prestigious universities will lose some of their mojo. Previously 
unheralded institutions will get bumps in their popularity. We all know 
that Texas A&M has an awesome agricultural department, but who’s to 
say they don’t have right at this very minute employ the best statistics
 teacher on the planet? What if by coincidence they also the best 
computer graphics teacher in the Western states because her husband will
 always be an Aggie and refuses to move to Palo Alto?  [..]

[Then ] the 
logical way to get the highest quality education will be to cherry pick 
rock star teachers regardless of the school you’re enrolled in. You might get a killer art history prof at Yale, a machine learning 
prodigy from Stanford, and that up-and-coming American Lit chick out of 
Guangdong. Universities will obviously resist because they won’t want 
their monopoly power to be challenged, because they will have honest 
disagreements about standardization, and because above all else they 
will fear becoming commodities. Getting a degree will be like visiting a
 food court where you can get Ethiopian bread, Mongolian beef, and 
chicken nuggets if you brought the kids.

Eventually the market will win out. Just as AOL and CompuServe and 
Microsoft were forced by consumers to use Internet protocols in the 
1990s, you will be able to assemble exactly the degree you want. Currently to get to the meat of your English Lit degree you’re often 
force fed a shedload of impenetrable courses because a tenured 
bureaucrat decided in 1989 that deconstructionism might become an 
enduring political movement.

--

Nice.

My $0.02, it will be beneficial for teachers, universities to leave all the course material on the Net, available at all times (also good for public). There will be no "enrolling to the course" to view material, the class will not "start" or "end". The class will always be on. Money (or whatever its replacement is in the post-industrial world) is made for certification, for grading and additional help.

The evaluators dont even have to be associated directly with the teachers and universities either, evaluation / certification could be a whole different, parallel market. A student could follow an ML course from Stanford, have his knowledge evaluated in Shangai by an evaluator who is known for evaluating that course, and is local to the student.














