# Week 8

I agree Turkey should not be a model; it has too much of that Ottoman
filth in its past, just like Egypt, another country unlucky enough to
have lived under every version of barbaric Roman Empire as
possible. And Pharaohs before that! I cannot imagine a worse history
to draw good lessons from in 21st century.

I would look to Europe for example, even South Africa, anywhere but a
Middle Eastern country.

On "rebuilding the apparatus of autocracy": most analysts who are
educated in their subject areas are in the danger of seeing
developments too "ruler, state centric". 3rd wave changed the equation
completely. People now have actual power in their hands through the
use of technology. No state denies them this communication completely
either, because then, they are seen as backward, camel-humping,
Eastern "peoples" in the eyes of their Western counterparts. They're
shamed into allowing open communication, and when they do, there goes
information, and there goes all the power associated with it. So I see
no danger of such an autocracy forming.

There is however a danger of stalled economic development, and the
cure for that is liberalization "at warp speed."

Shashank Joshi, BBC: "Viewpoint: Too early to celebrate in
Egypt?.. There is every possibility that [Defence Minister Mohamed
Tantawi] will simply rebuild the apparatus of autocracy by dispersing
superficial powers to a fractured opposition, while restoring the army
to its Cold War standing.[..] Some optimists have invoked the "Turkish
model" for Egypt, but recall that the Turkish army has toppled four
governments since 1960 and still lurks just under the surface of that
country's democratic institutions"

---

evilrouters.net: [I]n the United States, the “kill switch” bill has
been revived and should be heading back to a Senate committee very
soon. Interesting timing, to say the least. Since the removal of Egypt
from the Internet, I’ve heard many folks discussing alternative means
of communications should the same thing ever happen here (USA) [..]. I
haven’t heard mentioned — much — is amateur radio.

If or when the government flips the “kill switch”, I’ll be firing
those radios back up. When your Internet connection goes down, your
landline is cut off, and the cellular towers are overloaded, you won’t
be able to access Twitter or Facebook, but you WILL be able to
communicate and get your message out. Somewhere in Egypt right now is
a ham radio operator getting his message out to the rest of the world.

In summary, it is possible to use Internet protocols using radio
frequencies as a transport mechanism"

---

Psychology Today: "The Sudbury Valley School has, for the past forty
years, been the best-kept secret in American education. Most students
of education have never heard of it. Professors of education ignore
it, not out of malice but because they cannot absorb it into their
framework of educational thought. The Sudbury Valley model of
education is not a variation of standard education. It is not a
progressive version of traditional schooling. It is not a Montessori
school or a Dewey school or a Piagetian constructivist school. It is
something entirely different. To understand the school one has to
begin with a completely different mindset from that which dominates
current educational thinking. One has to begin with the thought:
Adults do not control children's education; children educate
themselves.

But the secret is getting out, spread largely by students and others
who have experienced the Sudbury Valley School directly. Today at
least two dozen schools throughout the world are modeled after Sudbury
Valley. I predict that fifty years from now, if not sooner, the
Sudbury Valley model will be featured in every standard textbook of
education and will be adopted by many public school systems. In fifty
years, I predict, today's approach to education will be seen by many
if not most educators as a barbaric remnant of the past. People will
wonder why the world took so long to come to grips with such a simple
and self-evident idea as that upon which the Sudbury Valley School is
founded: Children educate themselves; we don't have to do it for them.

No staff members at the school have tenure. All are on one-year
contracts, which must be renewed each year through a secret-ballot
election. As the student voters outnumber the staff by a factor of 20
to 1, the staff who survive this process and are re-elected year after
year are those who are admired by the students.

Students are free, all day, every day, to do what they wish at the
school, as long as they don't violate any of the school's rules. The
rules, all made by the School Meeting, have to do with protecting the
school and protecting students' opportunities to pursue their own
interests unhindered by others.

None of the school's rules have to do with learning. The school gives
no tests. It does not evaluate or grade students' progress.[1] There
is no curriculum and no attempt to motivate students to learn. Courses
occur only when students take the initiative to organize them, and
they last only as long as the students want them. Many students at the
school never join a course, and the school sees no problem with
that. The staff members at the school do not consider themselves to be
teachers. They are, instead, adult members of the community who
provide a wide variety of services, including some teaching. Most of
their "teaching" is of the same variety as can be found in any human
setting; it involves answering sincere questions and presenting ideas
in the context of real conversations."

---

There is all this talk about Sputnik moment, time of change etc., but
let's not forget what happened after the so called "Sputnik moment"
during the 50s. US got all scared, wanted to catch-up, decided to
fund, out-educate, out-RD, and then ... they brought in the German
guy.

Right? Would the Apollo projects get off the ground (literally)
without Von Braun? Or let's generalize and say "without serious
European mojo"? That is the critical point, even today, the solution
for more R&D, more innovation in US seems to be more
immigration. Partly this is understandable, since US is a country
founded by immigrants. But the question is, can it continue to rely on
immigrants in an age when more and more people opt to stay at home,
and, with the absence of an immigration option, can US find a way to
out-educate other nations without using innovative methods?

I argue US cannot do this by using outdated words such as
"classrooms", "standards", and "teachers". Obama state of the union
speech fell flat on many issues and education was one of them. The
world has changed, nothing in the past will be able to help 100%. You
can look to Reagan all you want for solutions -- at least he had the
good sense to talk to Tofflers in his day -- but world has changed
drastically even compared to Reagan's time. We need original ideas.

---

Aside from that though, the article also had some eternal youth stuff
in there, uploading the mind into computers etc.. and I am like "man
where did this come from?". Then couple days later I am watching Tron
Legacy, then it made all sense. The TIME article basically takes bunch
of unrelated, random ideas from Tron Legacy and throws'em together,
creates a weird cocktail. Seriously, those parts are so bad they are
in fact comical.

---

A great slam on the TIME article about Singularity.

"Independent of whether you believe progress is slowing or not,
increases in the speed and performance of computers do not necessarily
imply that we will attain strong AI soon"

Very true. In fact I would add the speed limit at which microprocessor
runs an operation "linearly" has been reached already -- hence the
industry's move to multicore architectures. In other words, we are
seeing an exponential rise in the "total" amount of things we process,
but we reached the limit on how fast we can execute "2+2", and that
makes a lot of difference for hard AI. As a result we have bunch of
silicon "brains" multiplying. But isn't that like population growth of
say.. bugs? Bugs do processing, they multiply.. But did they reach
Singularity? No.

I am not saying human intellect can be replicated or not, or if
Singularity is impossible. I just think we cannot know for sure right
now. Also the way Kurzweil and his followers argue for Singularity
just seems wrong.

---

Excellent question "Are scholarly journals outdated? If so, what
should replace them?" on Quora and some great answers:

Marius Kempe: Yes. Moreover, charging the taxpayers who have publicly
funded scientific research for access to its products is immoral and
will hopefully one day be illegal [..] An excellent article on this
subject is Michael Nielsen's 'Is scientific publishing about to be
disrupted?' [link]

Venkatesh Rao: Research publishing started as a way to share new
knowledge. Now [..] even an apparently non sequitur paper about
Shakespeare ends up becoming as much a part of the
scholarly-industrial complex as some technical engineering paper.

That's really what this is: a "scholarly industrial complex" that's a
relic of the industrial age. I am not saying industrial modes of
scarcity-driven production are bad. But in the age of the Internet,
there is no justification for applying them to anything that does not
involve physical atoms. Research output is bits. It's not like making
steel.

In the scholarly-industrial complex, the idea of actually sharing
information for the purpose of stimulating intellectual exchanges has
gone from being 100% of the purpose in the old days of Abbe Mersenne's
living room or the original Royal Society, to maybe 10%
(optimistically). The other 90% of the purpose of journal publishing
has nothing to do with the original purpose. It's about perpetuating
the institutions that live off the publishing. This explains why 90%
of the papers published in most disciplines is mostly junk DNA in
humanity's collective knowledge genome.

I am not saying the work that goes into them is useless, but the value
most of the time is not in the paper, but in the person who does the
work, and their immediate social research context. Good research
mostly diffuses through word of mouth, not journals. I don't think any
of my papers belongs in the 10% non-junk (there, I admitted it). The
90% does NOT need to be "published." It should merely be written up
and posted online, and informally discussed. I mean come on, everybody
has LaTeX for FREE today, and can get a website for free as well.

---

TIME magazine is talking bunch of nonsense on Ronald Reagan and his
"revolution". I guess it makes sense "mainstream" publications to
"concentrate" on "central" characters. I will quote Toffler's
Powershift book on this one:

Shortly after Ronald Reagan was elected to the American presidency,
Lee Atwater, one of his chief aides (later successively to George
Bush's campaign manager and chairman of the Republican National
Commitee), met with friends for lunch at the White House. His candor
at that table was remarkable.

"You will hear a lot in the coming months about the Reagan
Revolution", he said. "The headlines will be full of the tremendous
changes Reagan plans to introduce. Don't believe them.

Reagan does want to make a lot of changes. But the reality is, he
won't be able to. Jimmy Carter pushed the 'system' five degrees in one
direction. If we here work very hard and are extremely lucky, Reagan
may be able to push it five degrees in opposite direction. That's what
the Reagan Revolution is all about".

Despite a media focus on individual politicians, Atwater's remark
underlines the degree to which even the most popular and highly placed
leader is a captive of the 'system'. This system, of course, is not
capitalism or socialism, but bureucratism.

---

In his speech Mubarak used words like "constitution", "commision",
"amendment", as if he is a President of a working, functional system
that is not rigged, and farce. Mubarak doesnt want to be seen as a
two-bit dictator, like Ben Ali in Tunisia packing up and leaving at
the first sign of trouble, unfortunately no matter how he serviced his
country and for how long, he is still a dictator. He should leave.

This is a stubborn man, it's probably a cultural thing, which leads me
to think why it should be no surprise that two previous holders of his
office were killed on the job. Surely Egypt's size, and relative
importance in the Middle East gives it a bit of a different status
than other Arab nations, but that does not make the current regime any
less farce. The current regime made the decision to rig the previous
elections, rendering any argument that people have a working,
legitimate government moot.

People on the street will not accept this -- and they shouldnt. All
bets are off now.

I think Mubarak needs a good ass-kicking. He could even be assasinated
pretty soon.

---

Ain't that the truth... Basicaly Egyptian history is a piece of
shit. Their culture sucks too. The only advantage young people had was
having spent relatively less time with both -- due to their age.

Plus, the Internet Age creates its own culture.

In You Are How You Work we talked about how going about your daily
life effects your outlook on life. In an age when ideas, knowledge can
be transmitted at the click of a button, no central authority can
maintain dictatorial hold on people for long. Each dictator (with the
exception of hermit states) allows this communication because of basic
shame, and by the time they cut the communication (the day of a
protest) it's already too late. Ideas have formed, friendships are
created, new relationships came to being. In the power triad wealth,
knowledge, violence, knowledge is by far the most versatile out of the
three, and can easily be subsituted for the other two. Tunisia, Egypt,
Spain are living proof of this.

BBC commentator: Egypt did not have a single day of democracy in its
history"

---

Eric Raymond: "Nokia's Suicide Note.. Stephen Elop has jumped his
company off the burning platform, all right. And, I judge, straight
into the fire. [..] Elop has failed to resolve Nokia’s drift and lack
of a strategic focus. Instead of addressing this problem, Elop plans
to institutionalize it by splitting the company into two business
units that will pursue different – and, in fact, mutually opposing –
strategies.

The plan Elop has pulled out from under wraps effectively splits Nokia
in two. The “Smart Devices” piece own MeeGo and Symbian Smartphones,
and is expected to work with Microsoft on developing a portfolio of
WP7 phones. The vagueness of [their statement] is telling. Clearly
“Mobile Phones” is expected to milk the Third-World market for Symbian
dumb-phones as long as it can [..]

Actually, the “Smart Devices” unit has confusions of its own. It’s
expected to manage no fewer than three platforms – MeeGo, high-end
Symbian, and WP7. Nothing has been resolved here! We’re looking at a
plan that will scatter Nokia’s management bandwidth and engineering
talent in four different directions, formalizing the existence of
product-line and line-of-business silos when what the company needed
to do was exactly the opposite – shoot the weak horses through the
head, end the internal infighting, and focus.

All the old reasons a WP7 commitment was a bad idea remain problems
under the new order. WP7 has bombed in its first quarter; there’s
actual evidence that it’s not competitive. This means that the
alliance does nothing to address Nokia’s historic weakness in the
North American market.

In the rest of the article, Raymond recommends adoption of Android. I
would recommend to put all resources behind their own OS, MeeGo,
trying to make it viable and attractive for developers any way
possible. We need diversity in the market. It's good for Nokia as
well"

---

Nokia has truly lost its way. It needs little slapping -- they are
thinking of adapting that bullshit American OS called Windows 7!

There is an alternative, Linux, which is written by another Finnish
citizen Linux Torvalds -- Linux already powers all of the (Google)
Android phones out there which is set to become a true alternative to
iPhone.

I would expect better from Nokia, I would expect them to create a
Linux, Python based (a language created by a Dane) OS on their own and
pull developers toward them who are not wholly committed to
Android. Nokia is truly in wilderness right now.

Someone please slap the shit out of them.

Oh, by the way, Google self-driving cars are programmed by a German
citizen now in US, his name is Sebastian Thrun... Wake up
Europe. Thrun has some interesting criticism on the university system
of his home country as well"

---

Healthcare is indirectly related to another issue: immigration (as
most things are in America). Businesses want cheap labor, that means
immigraiton, but will US be able to hand out US citizenship like candy
when this means the country now has to provide healthcare for all its
citizens, including all new immigrants?

---

I do not think we can apply free market principles in its entirity to healthcare. It could be argued that the "product" offered by a healthcare system is diminishing in nature -- there is only so many healthcare professionals to provide a limited service, that this service can be "priced" by the market, But the expectations of people from the system are wildly erratic. As the excellent program on This American Life reports, people pay X amount of money in the system, and expect the insurance company to show up with a truckload of money at their front door when they suffer any serious ailment.

The Obama solution that "requires" people to have a healthcare is, unfortunately, a non-starter as well, and as Newsweek reports it could even be unconstitutional (I hope it is, otherwise, I will lose a lot of respect for the US Constitution).

Then, a single payer system could be an option here. Hospitals can still be private, people still "choose" which hospitals they go to, in turn, doctors "choose" which medicine to perscribe to their patients, spurring R&D in drug industry.

Another question is, would innovation, cost cutting measures be pursued by anyone in such a system?

I believe it would, hospitals would compete to provide better service for less, therefore pursue new and better technologies.

US needs to look to Canada for inspiration. If this message is a tough swallow, then maybe government sponsoring of healthcare can be seen as "infrastructure" spending. Hell, government builds roads and bridges, so the economy can "flow" over these arteries, right? Well, in a 3rd Wave economy, people are the infrastructure, hence their well-being takes utmost importance.

That said, no system that is "concentrated (in hospitals)", "semi-central" (backed by gov) and are served by "specialists (doctors)" can be truly sufficient in the new age. Personalization, self sufficiency is king in the new world, starting with diagnosis, more involvement of technology will be essential in order to bring healthcare to the 21st century.

---

Great stagnation or external growth? A nice post on Tyler Cowen's book
The Great Stagnation. I think it connects nicely with our post A New
Form of Currency. I tend to favor the argument that we are innovating
(no shortfall there), surely can do *lots* more, however in order to
measure what we are already innovating, and to provide incentives for
more of it, we need to allow different payment methods.

---

Google Map of Protests

![](gmap-protest.png)

---

I am not sure if this is a big trend yet, but it could be -- some of
my conservative friends are pissed off -let me use a Cheney word here-
BIG TIME about certain neocon types taking a stance against
revolutions in Middle East. Responses we heard from such people so far
ranged from lukewarm to downright hostile, and my conservative peeps
are not happy about this at all. Personally I saw Newt on TV, he was
talking bunch of nonsense, was mad at Obama for supporting the Arab
street, and apparently Glenn Beck literally (and finally) lost his
mind and is rooting for dictators in the Middle East right now. I have
to say, events in this part of the world has been a great litmus test
helping seperate the good from the bad.

---

