# Week 32

Interesting tidbit on the Norwegian mathematician Abel shared by
Arthur Mattuck of MIT: he apparently had a tragic life, he made many
discoveries but in his lifetime, they were not recognized. Now he is a
national icon in Norway, there is a huge statue of him in Oslo: but
the joke is, since noone knew what he looked like, they made the
statue so big that you cannot see his face when you are near it.

---

Yes, Stanford, as well as MIT (through OCW initiative) already make
video lectures available to everyone over the Internet. Ng's class
goes one step further: During Fall of 2011 anyone in the world will be
able to follow and to a degree, participate in this class. Very cool.

What is taught in ML class? Let me summarize this way: if one day
Skynet took over the world and a robot with an Austrian accent kicked
your ass, this is the class you should blame. Joking aside, ML is
about teaching machines how to learn. I sometimes call the methods and
algorithms used here as "machine scientists" because frequently what
ML researchers end up doing is teaching machines how to model
mathematically / automatically. Modeling is science's main tool for
making sense of nature's data obviously.

"A bold experiment in distributed education, "Machine Learning
[class]" will be offered free and online to students worldwide during
the fall of 2011. Students will have access to lecture videos, lecture
notes, receive regular feedback on progress, and receive answers to
questions. When you successfully complete the class, you will also
receive a statement of accomplishment. Taught by Professor Andrew Ng,
the curriculum draws from Stanford's popular Machine Learning course."

---

Jeremy Clarkson: "How come every other city in the world staged a
pretty good riot [except the British?] To understand why the British
are so hopeless at getting off their backsides, we need to go back to
the summer of 1381 and the so-called Peasants’ Revolt. A mob, seeking
equality for all, had sacked London. They had burnt the houses of the
rich, beheaded anyone dressed in velvet, opened prisons, drunk John of
Gaunt’s wine and scattered financial records to the four winds [..]

Ten days later, the rebels confronted the king who told them: ‘You
wretches, detestable on land and sea; you who seek equality with lords
are unworthy to live.’ So they all went home. How come? What was it
that extinguished the fire in their bellies? Well, I have no proof of
this because nobody was keeping meteorological records in the
fourteenth century but I’d like to bet that it started to rain.

A lot of people with vast foreheads have, over the years, wondered why
Britain has never had a successful uprising. Some say it’s because the
monarchy was too powerful. Others argue that you can’t have a
revolution if you have a strong and contented middle class.

Pah. I say it’s because of the drizzle. Last year’s May Day riot was a
success because it was dry and quite warm. This one was a washout
because it rained and we are brought up on a diet of party invitations
that always say ‘If wet, in the village hall’. And you can’t change
the fabric of society from a venue that’s also used for parish council
meetings and line dancing.

There is some evidence to back up this theory. The night of 11 April
1981 was dry and unseasonably warm. I know this because it was my
twenty-first birthday. It was also the night of the Brixton
riots. Aha, you might say, but what about the Russian Revolution? They
also have rubbish weather so how did they get it together? Well, look
at the dates. It began in early spring and it was all over by
October. And when did the French storm the Bastille? It was 14 July.

Here’s a thought: the only reason why the Arabs and Jews have managed
to keep their nasty little war going for 50 years is because it never
bloody rains. If the post-war powers had put Israel in Manchester,
there’d have been no bloodshed at all."

---

Paul Graham: "I've never been 100% sure whether patents help or hinder
technological progress. When I was a kid I thought they helped. I
thought they protected inventors from having their ideas stolen by big
companies. Maybe that was truer in the past, when more things were
physical. But regardless of whether patents are in general a good
thing, there do seem to be bad ways of using them. And since bad uses
of patents seem to be increasing, there is an increasing call for
patent reform"

---

![](toofailed.png)

---
