# Week 4

You Are How You Work

Here is the key point behind all waves analysis; we are how we work. Then, in order to answer big questions on societal issues, we have to understand how the majority of the people make a living.

If people's work requires them to be in a farm, follow seasonal patterns, they will be the kind of person that requires that life. Their life will be slow, revolve around big families (more labor), and they will have many skills be a jack-of-all-trades, because agricultural life require it. Hence a country with peasants will have a peasant character.

If many people in a country are blue-collar workers, they will be forced to specialize, to work on standardized units of work, be on-time, and be syncronized. This is a life that revolves around the assembly line. Hence a country with mindless assembly line workers will have a modernist character.

---

This guy is really good. He even does the "thinking stop" move Obama
does. Hillarious.

https://youtu.be/rot1yguplr8

---

Someone created, "directed" a movie using only the game Grand Theft
Auto. I guess he played parts of GTA the way he wants his movie to
come out, and he recorded these scenes at the same time. He toiled
away for 2 years on this. Amazing.

This is a brand new way of directing here! Holywood, take notice.

[[-]](http://www.dailymotion.com/video/xfhffw_the-trashmaster-nouvelle-version-nouvelle-voix-off_videogames)

---

Another blast from the past (1996). Good shit. That smart bomb, stupid
children bit was really funny. Jon was into foreign policy issues
pretty heavily even back then apparently. Kewl.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/TjxYPMm4Ru4)

---

Interesting, somewhat spine chilling ad. Love the evil
laugh. Muhaha. The was most likely sponsored by people with
liberterian leanings who are against government intervention of any
sort -- in order to get their point across they chose the baddest
nemesis they could think of: the Chinese. I cant say I agree with all
the analysis of the ad, but it is well done.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/OTSQozWP-rM)

---

American political system was born in between two waves -- whilst in
transition from agricultural life into industrial one. This little
historical luck was probably instrumental in helping Americans to
manage their affairs efficiently during another transitional period --
this time from industrial into knowledge based era.

However, this historical luck might have an ugly side.

A system built during a transitional period might forever be doomed to
stay in it. America is in danger to forever remain in transition,
between 2. and 3. waves this time, in order to move forward they need
to adapt quickly, reward successes, push risk takers out on front in
order to create a new civilization.

I am optimistic about their chances tho, after all, US is the furthest
among other nations in 3rd wave.

---

movements.org: "On March 11, 2004, days before national parliamentary
elections in Spain, four trains were bombed at Madrid train stations,
killing nearly 200 people and injuring hundreds more.

In the immediate aftermath of the bombing and before any evidence had
surfaced linking any specific terrorist organization to the event, the
incumbent Popular Party (PP) publicly stated that the Basque terrorist
group ETA was behind the bombing. By the end of the day, however,
evidence pointed toward a jihadist cell inspired by the Islamist
terrorist organization Al Qaeda. The Spanish government, known for
taking a hard stance against the Basque group, continued to assert
that ETA was culpable, in part because making the Basque terrorists
appear responsible would benefit PP in the upcoming elections against
the Socialist Party.

According to blogger Andre Serranho, the first SMS message was sent on
March 13, the day before the election, and simply stated, “The
government lied. Pass it on.” Other messages began circulating, such
as: “We want to know before we vote,” “Today at 18 at PP Genova no
political signs demanding truthful information pass it on,” and
“Information poisoning at 18:00 PP pass it on.”. By 11 p.m. on March
13, more than 10,000 people had gathered in front of the PP
headquarters in Madrid.

Serranho notes that the majority of Spaniards he spoke to acknowledged
that they had forwarded text messages to their contact lists upon
receiving them. This created a snowball effect, with thousands of
texts being passed around asking Spaniards to vote for the Socialist
Party and to demonstrate against the Popular Party. At the time, Spain
had a mobile penetration rate of 94 percent, indicating that many
residents of the country had mobile phones capable of sending and
receiving texts; March 13 saw a 20 percent increase in text messages;
March 14, election day, saw a rise of 40 percent.

These tactics proved successful. The large size of the group that
gathered at PP headquarters showed how many people were upset with the
incumbent party. In a surprising turn, the Socialist Party defeated
the PP at the polls, with turnout for the election estimated at 77
percent, an 8 percent increase from the previous election.

Such is the power of technology. This case is also interesting,
because it has nothing to do with globalization, but everything to do
with technology. Tech can empower at individual level, it can have
grassroots effects on the power structure. This is the crucial
point. Technology takes precedence to globalization, the latter could
be fleeting, increasing, or decreasing at times. But the constant is
always the effect of the production method (knowledge base in this
case) on the social order. The SMS was sent, broadcast in one
country. And it worked"

---

Ken Robinson: Do schools kill creativity?

[[-]](https://youtu.be/iG9CE55wbtY)

---

They can ingest grain in huge amounts, and are also inclined to be
"traditionalists" for this very reason. It's a farm oriented and
settled life.

---

I talked about how blood type ties into character traits. Type O is
sports oriented, A is more settled, B's are tall, etc. I do not mean
if you are not of type O, you are a wuss. I am just saying being a
sports spectator and running after a ball for 90 minutes might not be
your thing. That kind of sustained physical exertion is a type O
business.

In matters of survival though, of course, all types are equal. I know
a fantastic street fighter of type A. I know many martial artists of
type B (this type is also physically the strongest). In fact I
speculated some time ago since type A is the "farmer" blood type [1],
the development of martial arts in China and Japan would tie directly
in to them. Here comes the Samurai trying to tax you, and farmers of
Okinawa develop karate and kick their ass.

So do not despair. You are not a wuss.

---

Davutoglu likes Sinanoglu. TR Sec. State Davutoglu is a close follower
of Dr. Oktay Sinanoglu, a scientist, anti-American, and nationalist
firebrand whose books were quite popular in some circles during
90s. Traces of the same kind of shallow nationalism in Sinanoglu's
book are also present in Davutoglu's thinking. There are thoughts
patterns copied almost verbatim from Sinanoglu by D.

I say nationalism, but it is hard to distinquish at times though how
much of Sinanoglu's nationalism stems from his anti-Americanism -- one
can argue that most of it is. It might very well be that for this
reason his strongest arguments revolve around / against Pax-Americana
(rebranded in 90s as globalization). Hence Sinanoglu was one of the
few people who swam against the current when most in his country were
going ga-ga on everything American.

His analysis on the importance of mathematics education (rather than
teaching everything in a foreign language -English-) was also
dead-on. On these topics Sinanoglu is aligned with the needs of the
3rd wave, he only lacked the foundation on the social ramifications
resulting from the knowledge age, and the importance of the methods of
production, that is why he could not bring his analysis to its
ultimate conclusion. Because his nationalism is a form of
anti-Americanism, he glosses over historical, cultural issues of his
country, and finally arrives to a backward modernist, centralized,
standardized 2nd wave nation-state which is all but defunct in today's
world.

Sinanoglu's effect on a Turkish conservative such as Davutoglu could
simply be a result of "here is someone from the West [1] and saying
nice things about my history". The formation and the following of
intellectual leaders in Turkey is sometimes that simple. Turkish
people like their thought leaders as all-knowing, narsisistic,
boasting [2], and Sinanoglu certainly fits this description (in one
book, he claims to have singlehandedly started the Women's Lib
movement in America for instance).

In conclusion, Davutoglu's strengths and weaknesses resemble
Sinanoglu's: right on being against Pax-Americana, wrong on
nationalism as well as trying to protect some kind of Turkish identity
just so they can "feel good" about something in their past, and making
that a necessity for any future success of their country.

[1] Sinanoglu taught at Yale for many years.

[2] Akin to a God-like Roman emperor image perhaps, or a "father" in a
paternalistic society, as in "father knows best". People of today's
Turkey lived under a Roman rule one way or another, starting from the
1st, up to the last, the Ottomans. People of Turkey have one of the
worst historical baggage any country can have.

---

Chris Tucker on Black President

[[-]](https://youtu.be/rfQGRvGAzKA)

---

Blair / Hitchens Debate

It had its interesting, sometimes funny moments, but overall, no new
arguments were presented, and I feel we are way past these two
gentleman on this issue. The division between science and religion
naturally came up, however, this division is a misnomer. Isaac Newton
researched both, lots of religious people contributed to science, of
which, Bayes is memorable for his contributions (to the field of
probability), and that's Reverend Bayes to you. In Islamic world the
same was true, Al-Ghazali is the best known example [1].

So really, if there is any division, it is between Rome and religion /
science, not science and religion. The Catholic Church did oppose
science, of course, but this confirms my theory presented in this blog
earlier in the post The Godfather. After the Roman Empire's collapse,
the Catholic Church took its mantle, preserved ceremonies, outlook on
life, culture. So during the birth of Renaissance it was Rome Version
1.2 -- the Catholic Church that was around; naturally it way they who
fought science, freedom, pluralism. If the fucking Romans were around,
believe me, they would do the exact same thing.

The backwardness of people who lived under Rome Version 2.0
(Byzantium) and Version 3.0 (Ottomans) is a living proof of my
argument.

[1] Later Ottomans came in the picture of course, and messed it all
up. It is notable that Golden Age of Islam does not include the
pathetic, corrupt and despotic years of their rule.

---

Another Lost Wannabe Bites the Dust

The scifi show Stargate Universe, another Lost copycat, is
cancelled. I wont even bother to share a link this time, the show and
this latest news on it is just too boring. But let me make some
general points on this subject.

TV Land, writers, marketers, listen up: Finding a major theme for a
scifi show is not that hard.

The Western cultural tug-of-war is between Rome and Jesus, war and
piece, Archimedes and a centurion (the former was killed by the
latter), centralized military machine against Renaissance [2].

Why did Stargate the movie, shows like Stargate SG-1 and Atlantis
work? 1) On the human side, Stargate is all about the conflict between
the military and the scientists, between Rome and Archimedes. O'Neil
and Jackson bicker all the time. Divison #2) On the alien side, there
is the G'hould who according to show's canon were the pharaohs in
ancient times. Hello? Isnt that akin to a Roman emperor, who bestows
himself (and its always a he) God like powers? Opposing them we have a
diverse humanity (which was stressed more and more in Atlantis) and
their seek of technology.

Battlestar Galactica (Original): Why did this show work? The enemy is
a centralized military machine (literally), they are the robots,
Cylons. Cylons are also monothestic, they resemble the marriage
between Rome and the centralized Catholic Church. One God, sure, as
long as it serves the military needs. On the other side is humans who
pray to multiple Gods, but that is more like multiple religions than
polytheism.

Star Trek TNG: Humans are all about science, knowledge. Who is the
baddest enemy? Borg: all about conquest, and the collective: a mix
between communism and Rome. Romulans? For f..k's sake, it's all there
in the name. The name of Romulan's capital? Romulus [1].

Bingo.

So you see, it's not that hard. Hopefully the upcoming show BSG Blood
and Chrome will return to original show's roots, and follow the
cultural lines mentioned above more closely.

Dear show creators, writers: so you had your little confusing period
after 9/11, you got that out of your system. Now get the f..k back to
what you were doing before. Dont come up with another artificially
confusing shit and parade it around as scifi / mystery. We can see
right through that, very easily. Follow the example of Eureka. They
are pretty successful in terms of viewership.

Now excuse me, I have old episodes of Firefly waiting for me.

[1] The falling out between Vulcans and Romulans also have their
parallels in Rome / Renaissance seperation. Vulcans are all about
science, philosophy, Romulans are all about conquest, and military.

[2] This is one of the rare culture codes that I find relevant for
today's world.


---
