# Week 44

If due to increased efficiencies in the economy people are out of
work, the solution cannot be "reduced work hours" -- this would be a
modernist, industrial (therefore backward) solution to the problem;
reduced work hours are another standard, another potential restriction
for business. Instead, government giving out 1K, 2K $ per month to
everyone is better; this gives people the freedom to do whatever they
want with that money, so supply / demand signals still work. The
extraordinary wealth that is created due to high-tech production --
which inherently favors the few -- is shared by everyone.

I repeat: the originator of this idea is not Karl Marx, but Milton
Friedman. Marx, the idealist moron that he was, went to a completely
different (read: wrong) direction.

Another reason why such a distribution mechanism is important: in a
3rd Wave economy is that the outcome of projects become less and less
predictable. It is not a coincidence most recent management advice in
business is the so-called "Trystorming" approach which advocates
failing fast, quick while trying many solutions. But "trystorming"
requires trying and failing many times, and such risk taking will work
best in society with a wide social net.

---

It is interesting to note that one of the giants of computer science
and programming, Donald Knuth is also the creator of the typesetting
system TeX which forms the backbone of scientific publishing (I
personally use a variant called LaTeX that lets me quickly prepare a
document, using special codes for different types of structures). If
the printing press gave the spark of renaissance, reformation, then
one of the pioneers of what I consider a digital renaissance also
enjoys a similar figure, this time being a creator of a digital
publishing system. We have a digital Gutenberg and Galilei embodied in
Knuth.

The benefits of this digital publishing system cannot be
overstated. For my work I have all kinds of shortcuts, templates that
let me write a scientific document almost as fast as I can think
it. When I am done, with another script the whole thing goes to the
Net, one piece is added to a tracking system, generated PDF file is
appended to another master file. The whole thing grows, becomes
searchable, can be watched, downloaded by others as soon as I make put
this material "out there".

If this is not revolutionary, I don't know what is.

---

"A comment posted to London’s Guardian newspaper said it best:
“Censorship, like everything else in the West, has been privatized.”
The writer [was ..] referring to news that Wikileaks — the online
whistleblower that has been embarrassing governments and corporations
worldwide by disclosing their secrets — was suspending operations.

Why? Had its leader, the mercurial Julian Assange, been indicted? Had
the black choppers swooped in and taken him out? No, nothing that
cinematic. It was the bankers. A handful of big money handlers decided
they wouldn’t process donations to Wikileaks, it had exhausted its
reserves, and it was going broke.

The fund cutoff started in December 2010. That’s when Visa,
MasterCard, PayPal, Western Union, Amazon and Bank of America
discovered their patriotic duty"

---

"Jeremy Rifkin, Der Spiegel, 2005

No one is dealing with the real employment problem in Europe. They're
afraid to have the real conversation. These jobs are never coming
back.[..] Outsourcing counts for about 5 percent or less of the jobs
that are disappearing. [..] The fact is that we're ending mass wage
labor. This is what's going on with all the companies I've been
working with.

The last great structural shift in labor occurred at the beginning of
the industrial revolution. We ended slave labor and that was a great
structural shift. For 10,000 years people held each other as
slaves. From an economic point of view, it became cheaper to feed coal
to the steam engine than to feed the mouth of a slave. The new high-
tech revolutions of the 21st century end mass wage labor -- meaning
the cheapest worker in the world is more expensive than the
intelligent technology coming online to replace them."

---
