# The Herouni Antenna, CMB

[Paper](http://elib.sci.am/2007_1/10_1_2007.pdf)

The first in the World Radio-Optical Telescope ROT-54/2.6 was designed
and built during 1975-1985 by Radiophysics Research Institute (RRI,
Yerevan, Armenia) on territory of RRI Aragats Scientific Centre (ASC,
100 ha) on Mount Aragats (Armenia) at altitude 1700m...

[An] important question is what means so low Self Noises (2,6 K or 2,8
K). According to the theory of the Big Bang in Universe it must have
been Relict radiation of 2,7 K.  If it is right, then our measured
noises near Zenith had to be 2,6+2,7=5,3K.  But they are absent. It is
also impossible that our 2,6 K is 2,7 K of Relict. Because it will be
only in case, if our Antenna is ideal and its Self Noises are equal 0
K.  But it is impossible on Earth. So there is only one explanation,
that Relict radiation is absent in Universe, and.. there never was any
Big Bang in Universe.

[Paper](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=16LCitZcCeddAAyuVILc8qxHo7g7dL5X9)

The main purpose of this article is to concentrate on.. the very low
level of Self Noises of ROT Antenna...

This very low level of our measured self noises of ROT Antenna rises
the query to well known cosmogonic theory of “Big Bang”. According to
this theory it has to be in Universe the uniform relict background
having level of about 3K (2.7K) in waverange 8mm.  This was confirmed
experimentally by A.Pensias and R.Wiliams (USA) who in 1965 had
measured the self noises of hom antenna and received 6K. As
theoretically it is considered that self noises of hom antenna have to
be about 3K, it was decided that the rest 3K is relict background (for
what they even were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1978).

But the presented above result of our measurements shows that either
this 2.8K is a relict background, then self noises of ROT Antenna is
equal zero.. or this is self noises of Antenna, and then the relict
background is absent (or almost absent). In this case it has sense to
return to the earlier “quantes ageing” theory which explains also the
known “red shift”.

References

[1] [Journal Archives, 1999, June, Vol 2 No 2](http://jae.ece.ntua.gr/archive/archive_index.html#ID1999-)

[2] [Al Jazeera Documentary](https://youtu.be/WAx9Z9DyMHY)

[[Up](../../2018/09/junk-science.html)]
