# A Nostalgia for Modernism

The title is taken from a book written about the mood of post 90s
secular citizens of the Turkish Republic. The fascist coup of 80 had
created the Islamoturkist ideology but it wanted to create a
counter-force to it, so the leaders made sure to alert the followers
of the existing pure Turkist ideology to be "on guard" against the new
newcomers, just in case they acted little to Islamist for their own
good.. This act ushered in a resurgence of all things related to
Kemal, a remembarence of the man through symbols, displays of
devotion, protests. The author Ozyurek chose one photograph from such
a protest where hard-core adherents put on masks with the founders
face on it, creating an eerie display using the long-gone leader's
image, likely creating an effect opposite than was intented.

![](modernism_cover.jpg)

These riled-up followers, gazing through the dead-looking eyes of the
founder's picture, were visibly trying too hard to do something that
was beyond possible. A type of culture war was in display, as in US
around useless issues to hide away the abnormalities of the uniparty
that destroyed all ideologies related to economy and well-being, so
was the case here, pitting one group against another, while hiding
away its own beastiness, its mindless[ expansion, in commerce,
national security, and land.

The nostalgia was for the nostalgia of the 1920s foundation spirit,
when the only ideology was Kemal's, a bizarre concoction of purebread
race who was both always in Anatolia and arrived later, who was
the bringer of civilization at the same time forgotten (until Kemal who
reminded everyone who they were).

But the ideology, and the nostalgia for it, were useful - a mere tool,
something to be activated as it was seen fit. The people behind the
masks did not bother to understand what they were, what culture they
truly belonged, they simply reacted in a power struggle whose
definition was not theirs.


