# Quantum "Supremacy"?

[Link](https://futurism.com/the-byte/oxford-physicist-unloads-quantum-computing?amp)

Oxford quantum physicist Nikita Gourianov tore into the quantum
computing industry this week, comparing the 'fanfare' around the tech
to a financial bubble.. Despite billions of dollars being poured into
quantum computing, Gourianov argues, the industry has yet to develop a
single product that's actually capable of solving practical
problems... Contemporary quantum computers are also 'so error-prone
that any information one tries to process with them will almost
instantly degenerate into noise,' he [said]...

Despite the industry's less-than-stellar results, investors are still
funneling untold sums into quantum computing ventures. 'In essence,
the quantum computing industry has yet to demonstrate any practical
utility, despite the fanfare,' Gourianov wrote. 'Why is then so much
money flowing in? Well, it is mainly due to the fanfare.' The money,
he argues, is coming from investors who typically don't have 'any
understanding of quantum physics,' while 'taking senior positions in
companies and focusing solely on generating fanfare.'

In short, Gourianov believes it's only a matter of time until the
'bubble will pop' and the 'funding will dry up' — at which point, it's
already too late"

[Link](https://gilkalai.wordpress.com/2022/08/06/ordinary-computers-can-beat-googles-quantum-computer-after-all/)

Science magazine.. article [says].. Ordinary computers can beat
Google’s quantum computer after all... The very short summary is that
by now classical algorithms are ten orders of magnitude faster than
those used in the Google paper and hence the [quantum comp] speed-up
is ten orders of magnitude lower than Google’s fantastic claims.

[Peter Voit](https://www.math.columbia.edu/~woit/wordpress/?p=13044)

[See] [The quantum computing bubble](https://www.ft.com/content/6d2e34ab-f9fd-4041-8a96-91802bab7765) 
at the *Financial* Times, where Nikita Gourianov argues that there’s a
speculative bubble going on in this field, [he says]:

'Well, when exactly the bubble will pop is difficult to say, but at
some point the claims will be found out and the funding will dry up. I
just hope that when the music stops and the bubble pops, the public
will still listen to us physicists'...

I think Gourianov makes an important point for physicists to keep in
mind. Having this sort of hype blow up in physicist’s faces is not
going to help with the credibility problems physics already has with
the public due to decades of hype about non-existent breakthroughs in
fundamental physics.

[[Up](../../2018/09/junk-science.html)]
