# The Big Bang

### JWST

The findings of JWST provided incontrovertible proof against the Big Bang theory.

Michio Kaku: "The James Webb Telescope is upsetting the apple
cart. All of a sudden we realize that we may have to rewrite all of
the textbooks about the beginning of the universe. It takes many
billions of years to create a galaxy like the Milky Way galaxy with a
hundred billion stars many billions of years old, but the James Webb
Telescope has identified six galaxies that exist half a billion years
after the big bang that are up to 10 times bigger than the Milky Way
galaxy. That shouldn't have happened. There should not be primordial
galaxies that are bigger than the Milky Way galaxy that are only half
a billion years old. Something is wrong, we may have to revise our
theory of the creation of the universe"


### The Herouni Antenna, CMB

[Paper](http://elib.sci.am/2007_1/10_1_2007.pdf)

The first in the World Radio-Optical Telescope ROT-54/2.6 was designed
and built during 1975-1985 by Radiophysics Research Institute (RRI,
Yerevan, Armenia) on territory of RRI Aragats Scientific Centre (ASC,
100 ha) on Mount Aragats (Armenia) at altitude 1700m...

[An] important question is what means so low Self Noises (2,6 K or 2,8
K). According to the theory of the Big Bang in Universe it must have
been Relict radiation of 2,7 K.  If it is right, then our measured
noises near Zenith had to be 2,6+2,7=5,3K.  But they are absent. It is
also impossible that our 2,6 K is 2,7 K of Relict. Because it will be
only in case, if our Antenna is ideal and its Self Noises are equal 0
K.  But it is impossible on Earth. So there is only one explanation,
that Relict radiation is absent in Universe, and.. there never was any
Big Bang in Universe.

[Paper](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=16LCitZcCeddAAyuVILc8qxHo7g7dL5X9)

The main purpose of this article is to concentrate on.. the very low
level of Self Noises of ROT Antenna...

This very low level of our measured self noises of ROT Antenna rises
the query to well known cosmogonic theory of “Big Bang”. According to
this theory it has to be in Universe the uniform relict background
having level of about 3K (2.7K) in waverange 8mm.  This was confirmed
experimentally by A.Pensias and R.Wiliams (USA) who in 1965 had
measured the self noises of hom antenna and received 6K. As
theoretically it is considered that self noises of hom antenna have to
be about 3K, it was decided that the rest 3K is relict background (for
what they even were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1978).

But the presented above result of our measurements shows that either
this 2.8K is a relict background, then self noises of ROT Antenna is
equal zero.. or this is self noises of Antenna, and then the relict
background is absent (or almost absent). In this case it has sense to
return to the earlier “quantes ageing” theory which explains also the
known “red shift”.

Eric Lerner

Big Bang supposedly occurred only about twenty billion years ago,
nothing in the cosmos can be older than this. Yet in 1986 astronomers
discovered that galaxies compose huge agglomerations a billion
light-years across; such mammoth clusterings of matter must have taken
a hundred billion years to form [3].

Penrose

RP said "When you plot CMB intensity against each frequency you get
Planck blackbody curve that means early universe must have had thermal
equilibrium. But thermal equilibrium means by definition maximum
random state... ". Wasn't the universe supposed to *toward* disorder,
and not start from one?

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fi5am2kXwAAEHF-?format=png&name=small"/>

References

[1] [Journal Archives, 1999, June, Vol 2 No 2](http://jae.ece.ntua.gr/archive/archive_index.html#ID1999-)

[2] [Al Jazeera Documentary](https://youtu.be/WAx9Z9DyMHY)

[3] Lerner, [The Big Bang Never Happened](../../2023/01/the-big-bang-never-happened-lerner.html)

[[Up](../../2018/09/junk-science.html)]

