# Week 12

A 3-D printed prosthetic hand has changed the life of a 5-year-old
South African boy  [..] and may be a model for people seeking a
low-cost prosthesis.

The boy, named Liam, benefited from work done by Ivan Owen, a
part-time mechanical special effects artist in Washington. He was
collaborating online with Rich Van As, a woodworker from South Africa
[..] The men decided to make Liam his own “robohand” and the result
has been life-changing [..]

The fingers and wrist hinge were made using a 3-D printer — a
computerized device that, given the dimensions of an object, can
create copies of it by adding layers of resin or other material.

---

"Edging toward the sweet spot of new-century governance, the 
info-state represents a growing number of dynamic and entrepreneurial 
cities, city-states or small nations scattered around the world that 
govern as much through data as via democracy [..]

Building on this logic of the economic over the political, Philip 
Bobbitt’s Shield of Achilles (2002) traced the advent of the ‘market 
state’ era, in which the maximization of individual commercial 
opportunity defines national power and success. Japanese business 
strategist Kenichi Ohmae then set the stage for the info-state era in 
The Next Global Stage (2005), which argued that urban agglomerations of 
city-states resembling the medieval Hanseatic League would become the 
world’s power centres [..].

[T]he info-state also presents new mutations that were not 
conceivable in previous technological periods – a peculiar convergence 
of the Information Age and the devolved authority of city units and 
clusters. The critical shift lies in the manner of policy-making enabled
 by new technologies: governance is practiced in ‘real-time’ – through 
constant consultation, rather than through traditional, staggered 
democratic deliberation. In a sense, this is a post-modern democracy – 
or even ‘post-democracy’ [..].

Already there are notable info-states across several continents and 
cultural zones, underscoring how this is already a worldwide phenomenon 
set to grow at the intersection of technological spread and pragmatic 
governance. New York City, for example, [.. has] undertaken to bolster its own security and intelligence capabilities, 
and then to diversify into IT and bio-sciences research – thereby 
becoming the US’s second technology hub after Silicon Valley. 
Switzerland is in effect a ‘cities-state’ – a conglomeration of 
specialized centres in banking, research, engineering, hospitality and 
other sectors. Israel has also made economic diversification into 
technology sectors a national priority, distributing so much funding for
 small-scale entrepreneurs that it has earned the title ‘start-up 
nation.’ "

---

\#QueenCountryandFish&Chips

It says "God Save Brit Food" up on top - this is in Berlin, I pass by
this place sometimes, and I laugh at this thing every - time. Without
exception. Hillarious.

![](my-pic-1.jpg)

---

Pfff..

This is a bunch of hot gas. Example: speed-up gains on a single
microprocessor stopped some time ago right? Plucked that low-hangin
fruit and we are done (well actually reaching the current speed levels
was no peach, but we'll leave that aside for the moment). Soo are we
stagnating now I guess, in terms of how fast, how much we can process
data.

Not so. The moment one avenue closes, another opens. If .. that
sounded too New Age, here's another one: necessity is the mother of
invention. All of a sudden running things in parallel became
necessary, and  running algorithms on seperate "cores" on these
so-called "multicore" processors or seperate machines came into focus
for a lot of engineers and researchers. And innovate they
did. Interestingly it was discovered that some analysis algorithms
were so easy to run in parallel that they are now classed as
"embarrassingly parallel" algorithms. This is the academese way of
saying "obnoxiously simple (and mind you, it was invented just the
right time, when computing power reached to a certain level)"

There are so many other things happening on different fronts that I
dont even know where to start. Cowen and people like him do not know
where to look, or they keep looking at the same tired old places.

"[I]t may come as a surprise that some in Silicon Valley think the
place is stagnant, and that the rate of innovation has been slackening
for decades. Peter Thiel, a founder of PayPal, an internet payment
company, and the first outside investor in Facebook, a social network,
says that innovation in America is “somewhere between dire straits and
dead" [..] Mr Cowen is more willing to imagine big technological gains
ahead, but he thinks there are no more low-hanging fruit. Turning
terabytes of genomic knowledge into medical benefit is a lot harder
than discovering and mass producing antibiotics"

---

Oh this is hillarious

"Perhaps the most radical answer to the problem of the 1970s slowdown
is that it was due to globalisation. In a somewhat whimsical 1987
paper, Paul Romer, then at the University of Rochester, sketched the
possibility that, with more workers available in developing countries,
cutting labour costs in rich ones became less important. Investment in
productivity was thus sidelined. The idea was heretical among
macroeconomists, as it dispensed with much of the careful theoretical
machinery then being used to analyse growth. Some economists are
considering how Mr Romer’s heresy might apply today.  Daron Acemoglu,
Gino Gancia, and Fabrizio Zilibotti of MIT, CREi (an
economics-research centre in Barcelona) and the University of Zurich,
have built a model to study this."

---

EXACTLY

"Pattern-recognition software is increasingly good at performing the
tasks of entry-level lawyers, scanning thousands of legal documents
for relevant passages.  Algorithms are used to write basic newspaper
articles on sporting outcomes and  financial reports. In time, they
may move to analysis. Manual tasks are also  vulnerable. In Japan,
where labour to care for an ageing population is scarce, innovation in
robotics is proceeding by leaps and bounds. The rising cost of looking
after people across the rich world will only encourage further
development.  Such productivity advances should generate enormous
welfare gains.  Yet the adjustment period could be difficult.

In the end, the main risk to advanced economies may not be that the
pace of innovation is too slow, but that institutions have become too
rigid to accommodate truly revolutionary changes—which could be a lot
more likely than flying cars"

---

You got it all wrong foo. Discussed [here](http://andrewgelman.com/2013/03/12/misunderstanding-the-p-value/). 

"Putting a Value to ‘Real’ in Medical Research.. When medical
researchers report their findings, they need to know whether their
result is a real effect of what they are testing, or just a random
occurrence. To figure this out, they most commonly use the p-value"

---
