# Week 44


---

![](Screenshotfrom2013-11-28105018.png)

---

"In his Prison Notebooks, Antonio Gramsci wrote: “The crisis consists
precisely in the fact that the old is dying and the new cannot be
born; in this interregnum a great variety of morbid symptoms appear.”
[..]

[America scales back, Russia acts as a spoiler]. Neither China nor
India shows much interest for now in new organizing principles for the
world.

Perhaps, those principles are now defined by technology, social
networks and individual empowerment, forces that lie outside
conventional notions of geostrategic power. But this is just another
way of saying that the world’s current interregnum is little
understood"

True

Wikipedia: "An interregnum (plural interregna or interregnums) is a
period of discontinuity or "gap" in a government, organization, or
social order". These are simply the new unknowns appearing because of
the 3rd Wave. The elements listed, technology, social networks and
individual empowerment are the base elements, the core of the new
age. Anything incompatible with these new forces will have trouble
staying afloat

---

"WHEN the first commercially successful steamship traveled the Hudson
River in 1807, it didn’t appear to be much of a competitive threat to
transoceanic sailing ships [..] so steam power gained its foothold as
a “disruptive innovation” in inland waterways, where the ability to
move against the wind, or when there was no wind at all, was
important. In 1819, the technology vastly improved, the S.S. Savannah
made the first Atlantic crossing powered by steam and sail (in truth,
only 80 of the 633-hour voyage was by steam). Sailing ship companies
didn’t completely ignore the advancement. They built hybrid ships,
adding steam engines to their sailing vessels, but never entered the
pure steamship market.

Ultimately, they paid the price for this decision. By the early 1900s,
with steam able to power a ship across the ocean on its own, and do so
faster than the wind, customers migrated to steamships. Every single
transoceanic sailing-ship company went out of business.Traditional
colleges are currently on their hybrid voyage across the ocean.Like
steam, online education is a disruptive innovation — one that
introduces more convenient and affordable products or services that
over time transform sectors. Yet many bricks-and-mortar colleges are
making the same mistake as the once-dominant tall ships: they offer
online courses but are not changing the existing model"

---

![](Screenshotfrom2013-11-14164942.png)

---

"For three decades, people thought the best proof of foul play was a
27-second home movie of the assassination taken by a Dallas
dressmaker, Abraham Zapruder. It shows JFK’s head being blasted
backwards and to his left [..] But the U.S. Government insisted that
JFK was shot by just one man hiding in a building far behind the
limousine.

Lifton was a graduate in engineering physics. He took the
black-and-white copies of the Zapruder film frames, published by the
U.S. Government, to Nobel-prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman. He
thought that Feynman would conclude, from the laws of physics, that
the shot must have come from the front.

Lifton was dismayed when Feynman ignored all of the frames except the
ones that show the President just before and just after the impact of
the shot: [..] Feynman found that JFK’s head moved forwards at the
moment of impact"

https://www.assassinationscience.com/johncostella/jfk/intro/wound.html


---

