# Tweets - Week 17

"@Jkylebass

Working with a senior government official on The Eagle Plan.  It will
immediately deliver $10,000 to all American citizens in exchange for a
1-yr deferral of eligibility for Social Security and Medicare benefits
(from age 67 to 68)"

---

"HydroSil [an H2 carrier] is stable and non-toxic and uses the same
logistic as conventional liquid fuels"

[Link](https://hysilabs.com/)

---

[Answer](https://www.thenakedscientists.com/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=1r9ofdb99kfsoj8sefkhadua81&topic=20992.msg267387#msg267387).
Summary: voltage fluctuate in that case across households -/+ less
amps required within same wattage gives different voltage, since $p =
iv$, and that is okay within a certain window.

Dude said "power used is proportional to voltage squared" which is true. 

$$
v = Ri, \quad p = vi = v \left[ \frac{v}{R} \right] =
\frac{v^2}{R}
$$

Additionally there are ppl running the generators who try to predict
demand on hourly basis so they run turbines on a schedule to generate
energy at acceptable levels.

But IMO gas / pipeline based grids wld be able to regulate themselves
much better. Hell individual homes could store excess H2 energy on
their own in huge amts if they wanted to.

"What happens to [AC] electricity [in the grid] that is not needed"

---

Gas based tranmission is crazy efficient. Let's replace electricity
grid with gas grid.

"Transport of H2 by pipeline exploits the high energy transmission
capacity of H2 (4 to 5 times that of electricity using HVDC
(respectively 27 and 6 GWh/h) and of the same order of natural gas (38
GWh/h)). This high transmission capacity is of particular advantage
for H2 production from RES considering that many of these sources are
far from the major load centres"

[PDF](https://setis.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2013TechnologyMap.pdf)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Imagine having Rahm Emanuel as your brother and *you’re* the family asshole <a href="https://t.co/q3QA2WfVYn">pic.twitter.com/q3QA2WfVYn</a></p>&mdash; Derek Davison (@dwdavison) <a href="https://twitter.com/dwdavison/status/1254118221315268608?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

How to use sewage net for covid testing.

Guy is right, the search (testing) steps can be near log2 bcz you keep
dividing the search space into two, the area gets small very fast. I
guess this is the reverse of exponential growth, a reverse exp
decrease (decay) so to speak.

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/CrowdvBank/status/1254063664191008768)

---

"Green energy could drive Covid-19 recovery with $100tn boost"

[The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2020/apr/20/green-energy-could-drive-covid-19-recovery-international-renewable-energy-agency)

---

Price is coming down fast for FCs. But I wouldnt worry abt price on
consumer side too much bcz automakers usually include a few years of
fuel with the sale or lease of a vehicle. 

[Link](https://cafcp.org/content/cost-refill)

---

What is a typical battery capacity for bitch BEV? 100 KWh? Hyundai
[Nexo](https://h2.live/en/wasserstoffautos/hyundai-nexo) has H2 tank
capacity of 6.33 kg, the energy density of H2 fuel is 33.3 kWh/kg,
multiply the two you get ~ 210 kWh. 100 vs 210. FC got you beat
son. Nexo can travel 756 km on a full tank BTW. Typical BEV performs
worse, if the bat doesn't lose half its capacity before that due to
"fast charging" and/or simply stops working due to cold or other
"extreme" weather conditions.

"How do battery and fuel-cell capacities compare?"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I remember falling for the precious metals hype in 08. Bought into the dollar hyperinflation doomsday. <br><br>Ride crypto, dont die crypto. <a href="https://t.co/tCdf8Gpvp7">https://t.co/tCdf8Gpvp7</a></p>&mdash; Mica Busch (@IcarusGlider) <a href="https://twitter.com/IcarusGlider/status/1254204114428461056?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 26, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Summary, the issue is private debt

The Great Stagnation, Plantenberg: "With interest rates hitting zero,
the Bank of Japan's only way to induce money growth [was] to keep
printing money. But the BOJ has already bought government bonds, and
thus created money, on a large scale. The monetary base has increased
at an annual rate of almost 25 percent over the two years to 2003
.. Yet this has not led to higher growth in broad money. Instead, bank
lending has continued to fall. Banks are reluctant to lend, as they
are already piled up with bad loans, a problem that is only slowly
being overcome. Moreover indebted firms are unwilling to borrow as
long as the deflation environment persists."

---

Betoko - Dance On My Feet \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/xhWjsFwVZiw?t=45)

---

Raining Again · Betoko \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/P_cKas-cwew)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Lyft open-sourced their autonomous driving dataset from its Level 5 self-driving fleet. <br><br>- 55k human-labeled 3D frames<br>- 7 cameras, 3 lidars<br>- HD spatial semantic map: lanes, crosswalks, etc<br>- Drivable surface map<a href="https://t.co/KDvvKRWX2w">https://t.co/KDvvKRWX2w</a> <a href="https://t.co/uvQ8jmw2UG">pic.twitter.com/uvQ8jmw2UG</a></p>&mdash; Reza Zadeh (@Reza_Zadeh) <a href="https://twitter.com/Reza_Zadeh/status/1153745243029700608?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 23, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<img width="240" src="https://media1.giphy.com/media/cF7QqO5DYdft6/giphy.gif"/>

---

Awwww shiit. Rogoff slapped down.

Plantenberg, *Accounting for current account changes*: "With the
current account balance being one of the most important variables of
an open economy, one should expect that its economic determinants are
well understood. Yet, as this paper seeks to demonstrate, this is not
the case. This paper focuses on the most influential theory of the
current account balance, the so-called intertemporal approach to the
current account, and provides empirical evidence that undermines the
theory’s main idea.

The intertemporal approach is an old theory that was popularized in
the 1980s and 1990s. The third volume of the Handbook of International
Economics edited by Grossman and Rogoff (1995) dedicates a whole
chapter to it (Obstfeld and Rogoff, 1995). And at least since the
publication of the authoritative macroeconomics textbook by Obstfeld
and Rogoff (1996), every graduate student attending international
economics classes will have heard of it.

The main idea of the theory is easily conveyed....  Under the
simplifying assumption that domestic agents hold only foreign assets,
this implies that countries with temporarily high incomes will run
current account surpluses and that countries with temporarily low
incomes will run current account deficits.  .. What this paper does is
that it measures across countries to what extent the changes in the
current account are accounted for by changes in national income and
national expenditure, respectively. It then shows that current account
changes do not primarily come about through changes in national
income—as the intertemporal approach would predict—, but instead
through changes in national expenditure"

[Link](http://www.mullerpl.net/econ/)

---

Who says gov cannot advance, innovate

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We replaced standard batteries with hydrogen fuel cells at our Washington, D.C. mail processing facility. This technology increases safety and workplace productivity and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/postalfacts?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#postalfacts</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/USPSGreenerThanYouThink?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#USPSGreenerThanYouThink</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/sustainability?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#sustainability</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/earthday50?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#earthday50</a> <a href="https://t.co/K4hcEfDL4s">pic.twitter.com/K4hcEfDL4s</a></p>&mdash; U.S. Postal Service (@USPS) <a href="https://twitter.com/USPS/status/1250029154453598209?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">chart life <a href="https://t.co/9mSFz3cWZ7">https://t.co/9mSFz3cWZ7</a></p>&mdash; Shit Academics Say (@AcademicsSay) <a href="https://twitter.com/AcademicsSay/status/1253487060914180096?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Sounds innovative. 

"We .. introduced new types of tests .. that has no RNA extraction
stage"

\#hancock \#NHS

---

"A leading Russian microbiologist has claimed the coronavirus is the
result of Wuhan scientists doing 'absolutely crazy things' in their
laboratory"

[Link](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8249875/amp/Wuhan-laboratory-scientists-did-absolutely-crazy-things-alter-coronavirus.html)

---

"Canada: One million respirators acquired from China unfit for coronavirus fight"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Next step for the world against the CCP is for all Belt and Road predatory loans to be cancelled. Uganda, Pakistan, Ethiopia, Nicaragua...they all need to walk away. Let’s call it the CCP Jubilee. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/MakeChinaPay?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#MakeChinaPay</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ChinaLiedPeopleaDied?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ChinaLiedPeopleaDied</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BeltandRoad?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#BeltandRoad</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/disinfectant?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#disinfectant</a> <a href="https://t.co/a3b2TL1LBI">https://t.co/a3b2TL1LBI</a></p>&mdash; 😷Kyle Bass😷 (@Jkylebass) <a href="https://twitter.com/Jkylebass/status/1253661980650541056?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Interesting work for long game. But what it reveals is why KPMG Survey of OEM Exec say <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> are game-changer for EVs. Supply chain + mfg: No lithium mining. or shipping mineral mat&#39;l. FCs are bipolar plates with polymer coatings. Lower risk. Less cost/mass. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energytwitter?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energytwitter</a> <a href="https://t.co/3dJsJ8BsWm">https://t.co/3dJsJ8BsWm</a></p>&mdash; Garry Golden (@garrygolden) <a href="https://twitter.com/garrygolden/status/1253674118945349632?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">24 new <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/stations?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#stations</a> planned for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Japan?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Japan</a> <a href="https://t.co/LIJop2P4l8">https://t.co/LIJop2P4l8</a></p>&mdash; BayoTech On-Site Hydrogen Generation (@H2Bayo) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Bayo/status/1253669599108882433?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

FC lecture

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AseGpinSQPA?list=PL30deB-5iwLKxkJyTvF4Mks9NG1wbATTz" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

US $R_t$ is below 1. Congrats.

---

Looks like a scifi movie poster.

\#congress

<img width="340" src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/yI6ECcwCjdY/0.jpg"/>

---

"South Korea Embraces EU-Style Green Deal For COVID-19 Recovery"

[Link](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidrvetter/2020/04/16/south-korea-embraces-eu-style-green-deal-for-covid-19-recovery)

---

Same report: "Based on current processes .. seawater reverse osmosis
(SWRO) 60% at 3.5 Kilowatt hours per cubic meter (kWhm-3) and
thermally driven processes 40% at 17 kWhm-3, the total desalination
energy consumption .... with the projected expansion of desalination
capacities, the energy consumption .. is expected to reach to 2.4
Gigawatt hours (GWh) in 2030 as compared to only 1.4 GWh in 2018"

---

"Presently, 150 countries are operating over 19,500 desalination plants
to produce 100 million cubic meters per day to fulfill the demand of a
population of 300 million throughout the world"

[Link](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/330484603_Desalination_Processes'_Efficiency_and_Future_Roadmap)

---

Superlover - Steam \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/kHn26TNQaYA?t=82)

---

CamelPhat feat. Jem Cooke - Rabbit Hole \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/phJT0x2ZzGw?t=76)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">“With the ever-increasing demand for solutions that enable sustainable, responsible shipping, we are confident that fuel cells will play an important role in helping the marine industry meet CO2 reduction targets.” Read more ⬇️<a href="https://t.co/nniObj2FTo">https://t.co/nniObj2FTo</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EarthDay?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EarthDay</a> <a href="https://t.co/FTFlIxOC5G">pic.twitter.com/FTFlIxOC5G</a></p>&mdash; ABB Marine &amp; Ports (@ABBMarine) <a href="https://twitter.com/ABBMarine/status/1252860766190858242?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"ABB signs Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Hydrogène de France
to jointly manufacture megawatt-scale fuel cell systems capable of
powering ocean-going vessels"

[Link](https://new.abb.com/news/detail/60096/abb-brings-fuel-cell-technology-a-step-closer-to-powering-large-ships)

---

That's funny bcz Cylons in BSG were nicknamed "toasters"

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We&#39;ve been bingeing <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BSG?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#BSG</a> on SYFY, and now we can&#39;t trust our appliances. Have you been watching with us?<br><br>Hang in. Geek out. <a href="https://t.co/pDiS1Kcqd8">pic.twitter.com/pDiS1Kcqd8</a></p>&mdash; SYFY (@SYFY) <a href="https://twitter.com/SYFY/status/1252635709778857986?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

So true. Yet I see some teachers even in ORMS brush such details under
the carpet. How can u not show where $A$ comes from? The whole problem
is encoded in it. I don't want to see some freak preprocessing code
and an obtuse API call. Show me the $A$!

"[It] is so important, just to identify the matrix $A$!" -- Gilbert
Strang

---

Sounds like the String Theory of its day.

"@johncarlosbaez

Kelvin became fascinated by the theory of vortex atoms, studying the
stability of vortex rings.

Kelvin (= Thomson) argued that vortex rings were a better theory than
the main alternative: atoms as infinitely hard balls, made of... what?

He started calculating the vibrational modes of vortex rings, hoping
they could explain atomic spectra!

For a while, in the late 1800s, you could get a job at a British
university studying vortex atoms.  The subject was never very popular
outside the UK.

The models got more complex, and nobody ever succeeded in matching the
properties of actual atoms.

Eventually Kelvin gave up on vortex atoms... but didn't admit it
publicly.

In an 1896 talk FitzGerald, another expert on vortex atoms, recognized
the problems - but argued that it was "almost impossible" to falsify
the theory, because it was so flexible"

[Link](https://twitter.com/johncarlosbaez/status/1253345624826806273)

---

I didn't mean to but now I know two different ways of looking at the
assignment problem, and three different computational methods to solve
it.

---

Open source at work

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">It&#39;s here! Ubuntu 20.04 LTS is available for download 🎉 <a href="https://t.co/FHBcrQXqEC">https://t.co/FHBcrQXqEC</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/UbuntuLTS?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#UbuntuLTS</a> <a href="https://t.co/cenWo4wciI">pic.twitter.com/cenWo4wciI</a></p>&mdash; Ubuntu (@ubuntu) <a href="https://twitter.com/ubuntu/status/1253378475295232003?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 23, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Haha.. there is some good stuff there.. My fav is the DS9 one, excerpt below

"How Science Fiction Imagined the 2020s

The first episode opens with a transporter error that sends three crew
members back in time to 2024 San Francisco. Two characters are
promptly arrested for being homeless and dumped in a “sanctuary zone,”
a walled inner-city internment camp for those unable to find work. The
third crew member conversely has the good fortune to be found by a
literal tech billionaire who made his fortune running media platforms
on the internet — sorry, “the interface” — and government data-mining
contracts. The story takes an even more radical and political turn
when the characters realize they have to ensure that a riot happens in
the sanctuary zone, thus triggering political events that will give
rise to the Federation"

[Link](https://onezero.medium.com/how-science-fiction-imagined-the-2020s-f8e98a5bc729)

---

Yes I've heard of some cases where the unemployed refused job offer
bcz they did not want to lose their unemployment checks. Some. But
Imma use this opp to stress the need for UBI anyway; With UBI ppl wld
never be in fear of losing money if employed, whatever employer pays
increases worker's already existing income by that much. Win win.

---

Is this guy serious? A plethora of muppets got a bail-out but the
states is where you draw the line?

"McConnell Says States Should Consider Bankruptcy, Rebuffing Calls for Aid"

---

4.4 M more claims. 

[Link](../../2019/05/stats.md#claims)

---

AKE FTW

"Ashai Kasei Engineering received an order for its 10MW large alkaline
water electrolysis system from Toshiba Energy Systems Corporation and
New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organisation (NEDO).

'This water electrolysis system is one of the largest in the world as
a stack size and can produce and supply 1,200Nm3 of hydrogen (at rated
operation) per hour,' Ashai Kasei said.

'After launching this water electrolysis system in November 2019, as a
result of conducting various tests, we were able to confirm hydrogen
quality that meets the required level'".

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/asahi-kasei-technology-installed-in-fukushima-hydrogen-energy-research-field/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Fuel cells are driving <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/sustainable?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#sustainable</a> mobility on land and water - and are set for the Moon and even Mars! 🌔 ABB spoke to JAXA about the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> powered Moon rover project, in tandem with Toyota. Read all about it ⬇️<a href="https://t.co/IoDKbMzsLC">https://t.co/IoDKbMzsLC</a><br>Image: Toyota Motor Corporation <a href="https://t.co/mhEqAunHSJ">pic.twitter.com/mhEqAunHSJ</a></p>&mdash; ABB Marine &amp; Ports (@ABBMarine) <a href="https://twitter.com/ABBMarine/status/1253243096168648705?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 23, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

ESA’s upcoming Jupiter Icy moons Explorer (Juice) spacecraft has
arrived at @AirbusSpace Friedrichshafen, Germany, for final
integration. To be launched in 2022, Juice will search for traces of
life on \#Ganymede, \#Callisto and \#Europa

[Link](https://twitter.com/esa/status/1253277568805060608)

---

Boris Brejcha - Butterflies \#music

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1l6Sj5MIVKU)

---

"@WarWithTheDinos

We’re thrilled to announce our film, AT WAR WITH THE DINOSAURS, is
available for pre-order today"

[Link](http://apple.co/2wYetqH)

10:22:36*

---

"Why didn't we see the ills of globalization before?". It started as a
way to spread US hegemony, to strengthen China against Russia, and
then it fed on itself - ppl, orgs formed around it who benefited from
this preferential system. After a while ppl forgot how it started. Who
would research its basis? People like Thomas Friedman are too fucking
stupid to question those assumptions. This is the guy who will write
the narrative for you after the fact, within the existing bubble /
reality. He doesnt have the necessary constitution to dig any
deeper. Same for most of the Washington think-tank crowd. The ones who
could, had the skills somehow stayed out, I guess again bcz of inertia.

---

More from the same tweetstorm: "Trevor Hastie, Steve Goodman,
@robtibshirani and I have been asking for more information about their
analysis and their data".

Dude frickin Tibshirani, Hastie, top statistics gurus had to get involved.

<img width="240" src="https://media2.giphy.com/media/l49JVpIbwls7ihKxi/giphy.gif"/>

---

And there was a whole uproar on that Santa Clara County [report](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.14.20062463v1.full.pdf). 

Their results were questionable, and here's [a
passage](https://mobile.twitter.com/wfithian/status/1252692357788479488)
from a commenter that is really maddening,

>[@wfithian] I am alarmed at their sloppy behavior. The confidence
>interval calculation in their preprint made demonstrable math errors,
>\*not\* just questionable methodological choices...
>
>I can't redo the whole calculation myself because parts were not
>described anywhere, but I have low confidence that those parts were
>done correctly; if not, the corrected confidence interval for
>prevalence in Santa Clara County might well stretch all the way to
>include zero.
>
>The authors said by email that they used a built-in Stata function and
>aren't sure themselves how the software used the input weights. I
>suspect they misapplied that function"

Mot..f..ka; used "a built-in Stata function"? What is this, the dark
ages? The software used is shit (and closed-source), duplication is
shit. And they dont even have their code available which uses the
closed-source shit.

What is going on here is serious mentality and toolkit fail. Akin to
still using Cobol in that gov office to process unemployment claims,
and a prevalent lack of slickness in using modern tools.

---

He doesn't report his model success, the $R^2$. He did not share code
nor data. "Made av on request" is a punt. Either you have files
available or not. Nowadays everyone capable enough in this space has
data / code on Github.

"[Reportedly according to his stats model] There is no empirical
evidence for these lockdowns" - Wilford Riley

---

Yes. We need less connectivity. Respect sparsity, locality.

"@JennyBryan

It feels like Microsoft, Google, and Apple are all trying to create a
world where people have no freaking clue where their files are saved
and I think this is a Really. Terrible. Idea.

This is the root cause of our kids' greatest agony re: online learning
right now"

---

"@MikeGrunwald

Democrats cave: Nothing for states or cities, nothing for election
protection or the post office, no oversight, no limits on fossil fuel
bailouts, no food stamps. They got some testing - somehow that’s a GOP
concession!"

---

Mmmmmmm escalope of veal

---

That sign in the background. Wow - Nashville, Tennesee

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EWMV42RUYAUnRxJ?format=jpg&name=medium"/>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">For profit hospital chain HCA spent billions on stock buybacks, paid its CEO over $108 million in 2018 alone, pours ungodly amounts of money smearing Bernie’s health plan and working to defeat Colorado’s ambitious public option, now gets enormous bailout <a href="https://t.co/5hO7UP5V3K">https://t.co/5hO7UP5V3K</a></p>&mdash; Lee Fang (@lhfang) <a href="https://twitter.com/lhfang/status/1252689526159335424?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Governor Fredo's brother... I guess the "illness" did not help
ratings, so he "got better". Understood.

"Chris Cuomo returns from his basement quarantine"

---

Here is mine

NANO

NANO

NANO

NANO

NANO

NANO

NANO

NANO

---

That's one idea certainly... 

"@People4Bernie

POSTAL BANKING

POSTAL BANKING

POSTAL BANKING

POSTAL BANKING

POSTAL BANKING

POSTAL BANKING

POSTAL BANKING"

---

Nice derivation of Gini calculation. 

[PDF](http://archives.math.utk.edu/ICTCM/VOL08/C030/paper.pdf)

---

Fully stocked. 

---

Just realized that Pikkety book came out in '13, around peak year of
US inequality.

[Link](../../2019/05/stats.md#gini)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Please welcome the newest <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> joint venture between Volvo &amp; Daimler worth $1.3 billion that will see the commercialization of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> powered trucks and buses throughout this decade. <br><br>The aim is to commercialize in the 2nd half of this decade. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a><a href="https://t.co/Xujoob9wDa">https://t.co/Xujoob9wDa</a> <a href="https://t.co/kAzK1tTUYZ">pic.twitter.com/kAzK1tTUYZ</a></p>&mdash; H2 &amp; Fuel Cell News🌎 (@H2NewsGlobal) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2NewsGlobal/status/1252607718927544320?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Skai company announced that they are developing the first hydrogen powered air taxi! BMW design team assisted the project. <br>Their prototype is called eVTOL. It&#39;s claimed that the flight range is exceeding 400 miles!<br>Photo credit: <a href="https://twitter.com/SkaiGlobal?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@SkaiGlobal</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/economy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#economy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SKAI?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#SKAI</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/eVTOL?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#eVTOL</a> <a href="https://t.co/vSPixqxEju">pic.twitter.com/vSPixqxEju</a></p>&mdash; H2 Economy (@EconomyH2) <a href="https://twitter.com/EconomyH2/status/1252867318029287424?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Haha.. a tweet says UK PM BJ is "hors de combat".

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Also, it&#39;s infuriating that Congress refuses to do the right and necessary thing: Members of Congress should not be allowed to own shares in individual companies. Period. End of story.</p>&mdash; Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) <a href="https://twitter.com/BCAppelbaum/status/1252783760724066304?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Jobs, sure, are in AU.. But then u save everything on sight.

---

Really? I just heard something on the radio on this the other
day. Singapore, UAE, China are all stakeholders in VA. Web says main
owners are Nanshan Group, HNA Group, Singapore Airlines and Etihad
Airways. Branson remains as a 10% shareholder.

So then AU gov is naturally like 'there are some stakeholders here
with deep pockets - why is it up to us to save them?'. Cant say I
disagree.

This is another downside to globalized markets - when shit hits the
fan for comps, which country do you go to? Where do you really belong? 

"Richard Branson throws shade at Australian government for refusing bailout"

---

No 1918 flu was not "Kansan" - there is nothing conclusive about that
claim. U r slippin ma' man..

---

"Coronavirus deaths greater where Fox News viewers watched 'Hannity'
more than Tucker Carlson, study"

[Link](https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/coronavirus-deaths-greater-where-fox-news-viewers-watched-hannity-more-than-tucker-carlson-study-says/ar-BB12WTTv)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The <a href="https://twitter.com/VolvoGroup?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@VolvoGroup</a> will acquire 50% in the joint venture for the sum of approx. EUR 0.6 BILLION. Common goal is for both companies to offer heavy-duty vehicles with <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> for demanding long-haul applications in series production-<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://t.co/qBNT9LPRle">https://t.co/qBNT9LPRle</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1252632429522833410?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The price of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> per kg is key when looking at widespread deployment of the clean fuel. But what is the right price?<br><br>$0.10 per kg is what <a href="https://twitter.com/Proton_Canada?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Proton_Canada</a> is trying to achieve. Find out more about the company&#39;s mission in this <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@h2_view</a> exclusive... <a href="https://t.co/xvhHsZQFTr">https://t.co/xvhHsZQFTr</a></p>&mdash; Molly Burgess (@molly_burgess97) <a href="https://twitter.com/molly_burgess97/status/1252604652249628672?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@Jkylebass

What happens if June WTI crude trades below zero all at once with
storage full?Could Wall St firms that carry positions for US listed
oil ETFs be on the hook for billions in losses after retail investors
lose everything? Looks like Amaranth happening all over again to
retail ETFs'

---

Solitary Man - Johnny Cash \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/-OVHnWyDmdw)

---

"@QuantaMagazine

A new geological model based on the mathematics of avalanches could
upend our understanding of earthquakes’ deadliest waves and perhaps
save lives in the process"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/QuantaMagazine/status/1252594964879552515)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Aligned with the Green Deal vision to achieve a carbon neutral Europe by 2050, <a href="https://twitter.com/Daimler?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Daimler</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/VolvoGroup?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@VolvoGroup</a> have announced a new partnership for large-scale production of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a>.<a href="https://t.co/z5TuBVgcat">https://t.co/z5TuBVgcat</a></p>&mdash; Molly Burgess (@molly_burgess97) <a href="https://twitter.com/molly_burgess97/status/1252519819846594561?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We’re pleased to announce an <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/electrolyser?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#electrolyser</a> frame contract with <a href="https://twitter.com/Lhyfe_hydrogen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Lhyfe_hydrogen</a> for new capacity of up to 60 MW. The <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/electrolysers?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#electrolysers</a> will be used to produce <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/green?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#green</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> for a fleet of buses in Bouin, France. Read more in our press release: <a href="https://t.co/bUzmTmOptX">https://t.co/bUzmTmOptX</a> <a href="https://t.co/yF3xnvbc80">pic.twitter.com/yF3xnvbc80</a></p>&mdash; Nel Hydrogen (@nelhydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/nelhydrogen/status/1252519254664130560?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Descendants of mafia-agro-empires, unite.

Take Egypt, tigger with you, then u have one fucknut of a cultural /
historical bloc.

"In one survey this month, 59% of respondents [in Italy] said the EU
as it is now makes no sense any more. In another, most Italians
described China as a friend and almost half said Germany was the
enemy"

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-21/something-has-snapped-in-italy-s-stormy-relationship-with-europe)

---

A-uh. Schmidhuber is angry.

[Link](https://twitter.com/SchmidhuberAI/status/1252494225880596480)

---

Taibbi: "Why Did Democrats Nominate Donna Shalala to the Bailout Oversight
Panel?

With the Congressional Oversight Committee, Democrats had a rare
opportunity to reverse public perception about the party’s closeness
to Wall Street. Instead, they punted again"

[Link](https://taibbi.substack.com/p/why-did-democrats-nominate-donna)

---

Hopefully planting shit in the ground digging shit out of the ground
era ends soon. The source of many troubles.

---

"@anunezjimenez

In my lifetime, I have seen things one would not believe:

- negative interest rates

- negative electricity prices

- negative crude oil futures

I am not yet 30 years old"

---

I wouldn't brush this event off as a "financial pecularity". Futures
are the most down-to-earth financial construct there is - you get
delivery of a certain commodity, on a pre-specified date, for a
pre-specified amount. Due to storage costs the price went negative but
that highlights something, there is no storage left for oil, demand died. 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">BREAKING: WTI crude oil futures trade at negative price for first time <a href="https://t.co/pOSyH6AVtP">https://t.co/pOSyH6AVtP</a> <a href="https://t.co/XsoH1jG8WH">pic.twitter.com/XsoH1jG8WH</a></p>&mdash; Bloomberg (@business) <a href="https://twitter.com/business/status/1252298699792883713?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@p_hbar_k

This contract expires tomorrow. Whoever holds the contract has to take
custody of physical oil and there is no place to put it. Hence, they
are willing to pay to take that burden off of them. June contract is
trading above $20 (so far) though"

---

Daaaaaam \#oil

```
2020-04-19    17.040001
2020-04-20    -2.720000
2020-04-21     0.010000
```

[Link](../../2019/05/stats.md#oil)

---

George Osborne: "more belt-tightening will be needed after the
coronavirus shock"

---

That's how it is among whites in SA you know.. A small # of ppl, they
live in gated communities and just keep fuckin eachother so they
get all crooked, especially mentally

---

Nikola vs Tesla. Nice match up. I hope US takes the side of the
American CEO, not some inbred South African.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Tesla loses bid to invalidate <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolamotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolamotor</a> patents in USPTO dispute. USPTO not only upheld Nikola semi truck important patents but refused Tesla&#39;s ask to modify our patents. Two billion dollar lawsuit moving forward. We will defend our company&#39;s IP no matter who it is.</p>&mdash; Trevor Milton (@nikolatrevor) <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolatrevor/status/1252263189741367296?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@fuelcellsworks

Gasunie Joins PosHYdon, the First Offshore Green Hydrogen
Project--PosHYdon integrates three energy systems in the North Sea:
offshore \#wind, \#gas & \#hydrogen & will take place on the Q13a
platform of Neptune Energy"

[Link](https://bit.ly/2ze3EBD)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">It&#39;s certainly fair to argue she has changed her views in the last year or two, but it&#39;s equally important not to airbrush out her entire career of promoting Bork-like corporate policies. Moderate? Ok. Progressive champion? Please.</p>&mdash; Matt Stoller (@matthewstoller) <a href="https://twitter.com/matthewstoller/status/1072147772235747329?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 10, 2018</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Eeww but what of RBG?" What of RBG? U look at all the Clint, Bam
appointments, were they for the working man, small biz, or
pro-corporate?

"But RBG is pro-abortion". That highlights the faux division that is
required the keep the kabuki theater going, while corporations buy out
America and the rest of the world.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">While ya’ll debate on Twitter whether I’m a self-hating Asian just for pointing out that it’s acceptable to criticize a one-party authoritarian Chinese state, I’m going to do a very Hong Kong thing and go eat SPAM. <a href="https://t.co/jrtyk5cv0P">pic.twitter.com/jrtyk5cv0P</a></p>&mdash; Melissa Chan (@melissakchan) <a href="https://twitter.com/melissakchan/status/1252019013829267456?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The Telegraph: "Our embrace of China was naive and cynical – now is
the time to hold Beijing to account"

[Link](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2020/04/19/embrace-china-naive-cynical-now-time-hold-beijing-account/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Denmark excludes from its COVID Business Aid companies that are: 1. paying out dividends 2. buy back own shares or 3. are registered in tax havens | what an opportunity! ⁦<a href="https://twitter.com/TaxJusticeNet?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@TaxJusticeNet</a>⁩ ⁦<a href="https://twitter.com/taxjustice?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@taxjustice</a>⁩ ⁦<a href="https://twitter.com/pierremoscovici?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@pierremoscovici</a>⁩ <a href="https://t.co/dtKkijdjL7">https://t.co/dtKkijdjL7</a></p>&mdash; Alberto Alemanno (@alemannoEU) <a href="https://twitter.com/alemannoEU/status/1251893182498996224?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<img width="340" src="https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn%3AANd9GcTKvSfr9PKIoPxQ94xOHMc9giwM-5Yb5e7Dp0j3RRfbJBcnKCbK&usqp=CAU"/>

---

"@nytimes

Other nations, including the United States, are still struggling to
test for infections. But Germany is doing that and more. It is aiming
to sample the entire population for antibodies in coming months"

---

"@ClimateBen

Did you know?

1. The vast North China Plain, one of China’s main food growing regions and currently home to about 400 million people, is set to become almost uninhabitable due to unsurvivable heat waves as we zoom beyond 2.5°C of global warming.

2. India faces the same threat"

---

"With the coronavirus pandemic and the shutdown of big parts of the
European economy, the 2x40GW Green Hydrogen Initiative can serve as a
blueprint for a bigger EU recovery, Hydrogen Europe Secretary General
Jorgo Chatzimarkakis told New Europe on April 16.

The 2x40GW Green Hydrogen Initiative aims to promote a massive
increase of electrolyser production within the EU in order to support
green hydrogen production.

Announcing the publication of the paper, Chatzimarkakis told New
Europe the 2×40 GW initiative can be regarded as a “great asset” for
the implementation of the EU Green Deal. “What we foresee here is that
basically todays Marshall Plan would be the Green Deal"

[Link](https://www.neweurope.eu/article/hydrogen-europe-floats-post-covid-19-green-blueprint/)

---

Not bad. This guy has talent.

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kol7RE3wCNA?start=140" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"@BernieSanders

Instead of bailing out the health care insurance industry during this
crisis, Medicare should be required to pay all of the medical bills of
the uninsured and underinsured"

---

"Democrats’ Big Coronavirus Idea Is to Subsidize Health Insurers"

[Link](https://www.vice.com/amp/en_us/article/7kzygq/democrats-big-coronavirus-idea-is-to-subsidize-health-insurers)

---

Whenever I unfollow I pick few ppl off person's follow list. I reason,
there must have been something to the person hence I started
following, they go full tard, but I can stil make use of some their
angle through their picks.

---

"@davidgraeber

I've said it before, I'll say it again. Corporate bureaucracies can't
organise space exploration. Big state bureaucracies could because they
were willing to put up with weirdos"

---

"Things that go crump in the night"

[Link](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2020/04/03/spacex_starship_crumple/)

---

Fabricated virus that escaped is a big possibility. A bio-attack is
another. It was the perfect weapon to hit Trump with if u think abt
it, the timing makes sense too. You see the man as the existential
threat, sacrifice some of your own to kill the enemy - isn't that how
war is conducted?  You know your dictatorial state can handle the
shutdowns, quick (especially since u r the ones who f-ing started it),
but US wld have a harder time...

---

This is the good part

"According to [Montaigner], the altered elements of this virus are
eliminated as it spreads: 'Nature does not accept any molecular
tinkering, it will eliminate these unnatural changes and even if
nothing is done, things will get better, but unfortunately after many
deaths.' Luc Montagnier added that with the help of interfering waves,
we could eliminate these sequences and as a result stop the pandemic"

---

I mentioned this [early Feb](week5.md), that Indian research, but
there wasn't any follow-up.

"According to Professor Luc Montagnier, winner of the Nobel Prize for
Medicine in 2008 for discovering HIV as the cause of the AIDS epidemic
together with Françoise Barré-Sinoussi, the SARS-CoV-2 is a virus that
was manipulated and accidentally released from a laboratory in Wuhan,
China, in the last quarter of 2019. According to Professor Montagnier,
this laboratory, known for its work on coronaviruses, tried to use one
of these viruses as a vector for HIV in the search for an AIDS
vaccine!

'With my colleague, bio-mathematician Jean-Claude Perez, we carefully
analyzed the description of the genome of this RNA virus,' explains
Luc Montagnier, interviewed by Dr Jean-François Lemoine for the daily
podcast at Pourquoi Docteur, adding that others have already explored
this avenue: Indian researchers have already tried to publish the
results of the analyses that showed that this coronavirus genome
contained sequences of another virus, … the HIV virus (AIDS virus),
but they were forced to withdraw their findings as the pressure from
the mainstream was too great"

[Link](https://www.gilmorehealth.com/chinese-coronavirus-is-a-man-made-virus-according-to-luc-montagnier-the-man-who-discovered-hiv/)

---

Teacher gets 30 students on Zoom for class. Now that's a perfect waste of net bandwidth.

We are still placing tech paint on the existing system. We need to
rethink the entire system.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">fuck it, organized rice <a href="https://t.co/RKDgtXbRwb">pic.twitter.com/RKDgtXbRwb</a></p>&mdash; beep boop bop (@zoopti) <a href="https://twitter.com/zoopti/status/1249926207933763586?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

😊🦉🦉🦉🦉🦉🦉🦉👍

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Living next to a pub, I&#39;m used to late-night revellers shouting but what really annoyed me was the chap who would imitate an owl hoot around 2.30am every night. Now pubs are shut I realise the hooting still goes on and it&#39;s not a drunk. It is actually an owl 😳</p>&mdash; Alan Cleaver (@thelonningsguy) <a href="https://twitter.com/thelonningsguy/status/1251483552677539841?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Being a pet parent". Haha

---

From *Bild* to Xi PingPing. Bad news for CH bcz DE-CH rels are usually
ok. *Bild* is one of the largest newspapers in Europe. Seifert is its
chief ed.

[Link](https://m.bild.de/politik/international/bild-international/bild-chief-editor-responds-to-the-chinese-president-70098436,view=amp.bildMobile.html)

---

Echo State Nets - they might have value for predictable time series,
but be careful on financial time series. Fin series depends on many
other external factors other than the history of series itself. Use
real money on this, you will lose your shirt!

---

*Japan's Economic Dilemna*, Gao (on Japan's bubble, and following stagnation)

"The dilemma in Japanese corporate governance between, on the one hand,
strong coordination and, on the other hand, weak control and
monitoring provided the causal mechanism that led to excessive
competition, a phenomenon that was critical both to Japan’s high
growth and to the bubble. ...  “Control” refers to the control of
shareholders over management due to the separation between ownership
and management (Kester 1997), and “monitoring” refers to the
mechanisms established by banks for 'assessing the credit-worthiness
of proposed projects; tracking the use of funds; distinguishing misuse
from temporary bad luck and correcting it; as well as credible
commitment to penalizing misuse as a safeguard against future misuse'...

Strong coordination was achieved, however, at the cost of deliberately
weakening shareholder control over management and weakening banks’
monitoring over corporations at the micro level (Kester 1997; Miyazaki
1963; Morozumi 1963a). Protected by the state, private corporations
and banks reduced their transaction costs through indirect financing,
through the use of the main bank system, and through business group
and reciprocal shareholding.

Sustained by the permanent employment system practiced by big
corporations and by multidimensional integration within business
groups, strong coordination led not to a socialist, planned economy
but rather to excessive competition among Japanese corporations in
investing in production capacity and technological transfers. This
excessive competition, in turn, triggered the high growth. After the
First Oil Shock, in contrast, banks’ monitoring further deteriorated
as corporations began to build financial independence, separating
themselves from the main banks. In the liberalization of finance,
banks’ leverage over corporations was weakened because corporations
began to raise capital through equity finance and zai’tech (financial
technology). After the Plaza Accord, moreover, the mishandling of
international demand resulted in not only an oversupply of money but
also the adoption of an expansionary fiscal policy that shifted the
incentive structure of private investments from production to the
stock and real estate markets. When the state policies served to
significantly increase investment risks, the weak control and
monitoring that characterized Japanese corporate governance
contributed directly to the rise of the bubble"

---

Log barrier method of opt needs a feasible starting pt and the way to
find that gives you ... another LP. That segway was so sweet, I cld
drink it like fine wine brother 🍷

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Should be required reading for anyone solving LPs.</p>&mdash; Greg Glockner (@gglockner) <a href="https://twitter.com/gglockner/status/1251560958842945536?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

