# Tweets - Week 25

"@erichter531

I think it's important for non-aerospace people to know that vibe
(vibration) analysis is a real term in the aerospace industry. You
think we're doing rocket science, but really we're just vibe checking
things all day long"

---

"@therriaultphd

Anyone know what happened with that @CDCgov Chief Data Officer job?
Put my name in for it a couple months ago, but never heard
anything. Hopefully they got somebody better for it? ... (and I really
don't mean "better" in any kind of sarcastic way - I just know that
the set of people qualified for that job is pretty limited, and I'm
legitimately hoping they found someone with subject matter expertise
who also knows how to manage a data program of that scale)"

---

Yeah spin that shit Botcha

"Amy Klobuchar says Joe Biden's running mate should be a woman of
color as she withdraws from the VP race"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">If you’re pissed off about wearing a mask, wait till you hear about seatbelts!</p>&mdash; Ron Perlman (@perlmutations) <a href="https://twitter.com/perlmutations/status/1273761927420710912?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Citing yourself fourteen times in the first sentence of your paper is the kind of energy I want to bring to the rest of my academic career <a href="https://t.co/SsdCoQoMIX">pic.twitter.com/SsdCoQoMIX</a></p>&mdash; David Madras (@david_madras) <a href="https://twitter.com/david_madras/status/1273616668401577986?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


Some famous ppl got whiter in hair under lockdown and I was like that
mofo-ka *aged* from the fear son.. Then I thought nah he just didnt
get his hairdresser visit for his routine hair coloring.

---

"@SpencrGreenberg

Fewer know that a product of effects gives a log-normal (with far
greater outliers)

Life achievement is more like a product than a sum"

---

Exactly

"@SpencrGreenberg

A sum of independent random effects produces a normal
distribution. This may explain the distribution of heights (added
effects of many genes)"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We are proud of our first fuel cell truck in Europe, the Energon. It is the first of others in a future growing hydrogen product range and has a range of about 700 km. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/green?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#green</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fcell</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/h2now?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#h2now</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/climatechange?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#climatechange</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/source?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#source</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/emissionfree?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#emissionfree</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/economy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#economy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/globalwarming?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#globalwarming</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/h2news?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#h2news</a> <a href="https://t.co/t69I1c5dbI">pic.twitter.com/t69I1c5dbI</a></p>&mdash; Quantron AG - eMobility | eEngineering | eBattery (@AgQuantron) <a href="https://twitter.com/AgQuantron/status/1273231258290720768?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Hand-craft it mathematically; so much more fun (plus higher chance
of success)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">With all due respect, this conclusion is absolutely preposterous. It comes from asking the wrong question. It is irrelevant to ask &quot;Can we learn X?&quot;. The answer is always YES.The important question is &quot;How much data we need? And What kind of data (observational, interventional)?&quot; <a href="https://t.co/AxpMTL1Gm5">https://t.co/AxpMTL1Gm5</a></p>&mdash; Danilo J. Rezende (@DaniloJRezende) <a href="https://twitter.com/DaniloJRezende/status/1273680831555555330?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Norway’s Largest Grocery Wholesaler Gives Hydrogen a Spin"

[Link](https://www.cummins.com/news/2020/04/29/norways-largest-grocery-wholesaler-gives-hydrogen-spin)

---

"@aaronstein1

[USG doesnt] have a policy beyond making life hard for Bashar and hope
he implodes"

---

"@AlainGoriely

Probably not a popular opinion, but I have no problem with zillions of
scientists working and publishing on COVID-19 even if they are new to
the field. We are not in the business of telling who can or cannot
work in a particular area or shame people for doing it"

---

"[Nikola Motor](https://nikolamotor.com/) to open pre-orders for fuel
cell pickup truck"

<img width="340" src="https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/nikola_badger4.jpg?w=990&crop=1"/>

---

File Brazillia, La Boulangerie Digitale \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/1ZskFge3Udg?t=32)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Germany&#39;s national <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> strategy is now available in its entirety in English: <a href="https://t.co/zhQzKMGgal">https://t.co/zhQzKMGgal</a><br><br>If 32 pages are too much for you, here is a summary: <a href="https://t.co/MC2ylQDOvA">https://t.co/MC2ylQDOvA</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energytransition?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energytransition</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ClimateAction?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ClimateAction</a> <a href="https://t.co/3gyMd2jZyT">pic.twitter.com/3gyMd2jZyT</a></p>&mdash; Clean Energy Wire (@cleanenergywire) <a href="https://twitter.com/cleanenergywire/status/1273279649397833733?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr">The Nice Côte d’Azur Metropolis has started to trial <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> powered bikes. <a href="https://t.co/bBAT3KdDcq">https://t.co/bBAT3KdDcq</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1273306177057816577?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Aahh, the right keyword makes all the difference; "variable pitch". 

---

No. It's a [First Wave](../../2017/10/foragers-farmers-morris.md#hierarchy)
thing.

"Womens being treated as second-class citizens in history all around
the world is a sexual thing"

---

Basically the motto seems to be if out-of-the-ordinary shoot it, or
escalete things so you can shoot it, or at the very least put a
chokehold on, then call it a day.

"@herosnvrdie69

Do y’all remember when the cops shot an unarmed social worker laying
on the ground with his hands up trying to help his autistic patient?"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/herosnvrdie69/status/1272879354918379520)

---

"@esaagar

Nothing to see here folks. Just US firm @thermofisher selling
equipment to the Chinese government so they can build a DNA database
of their citizens for the sole purpose of maintaining authoritarian
control"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/esaagar/status/1273287519166246912)

---

<img width="240" src="https://i.pinimg.com/originals/8d/ff/bc/8dffbc8f542a0675d46295cfde54f764.gif"/>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">My first bagel store job in Ithaca, 1981, no one warned me that cops would just walk in and help themselves to free coffee. <a href="https://t.co/orMdus3Zs6">https://t.co/orMdus3Zs6</a></p>&mdash; Philip N Cohen (@familyunequal) <a href="https://twitter.com/familyunequal/status/1273466762642808832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Great.. of course gov is partially tring to deflect from own troubles
by putting attention on someone else's, but this is good.

"@SenateForeign

I’m glad the \#UyghurHumanRightsPolicyAct was signed into law
today. This legislation is the product of a true bipartisan, bicameral
effort, and I look forward to its full implementation soon"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In fairness, you’re in england</p>&mdash; Dan Greene (@Greene_DM) <a href="https://twitter.com/Greene_DM/status/1273363851564797955?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@SarcasmStardust

I love when someone attempts to mock me by saying 'you just want some
hippie utopia.'

You mean a society where people take care of each other and work
together to advance humanity in a positive, peaceful way?

Why yes, Chad. Yes I do"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Breonna Taylor’s police report said she had “no injuries” when she in fact had 8 gunshot wounds. And the 3 cops responsible still walk free. WT fucking F?</p>&mdash; Ron Perlman (@perlmutations) <a href="https://twitter.com/perlmutations/status/1273284690347089921?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

It was one death too much. Dont look for "tipping points". This issue
was something most whites abhorrred.

"@AkwugoEmejulu

Like the rest of you, I’ve been puzzled by white people’s
mobilisations for Black lives in this moment. Why now? Why George
Floyd, particularly?"

---

"@dlfivefifty

Positives of maintaining open source maths software: can do research
much faster with tools designed especially for your work. Negatives:
trying to do research often degenerates into a day or two of fixing
completely unrelated bugs"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This is the most important trial result for COVID-19 so far. Significiant reduction in mortality in those requiring oxygen or ventilation from a widely available, safe and well known drug. Many thanks to those who took part and made it happen. It will save lives around the world. <a href="https://t.co/zRIaHulHOe">https://t.co/zRIaHulHOe</a></p>&mdash; Professor Chris Whitty (@CMO_England) <a href="https://twitter.com/CMO_England/status/1272877425295319040?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Ballard Power @BallardPwr It's happening - the cost reduction of
\#hydrogen \#fuelcell \#technology for \#FCEBs

[Link](https://bit.ly/30OvIaE)

---

Reminder that Roberts, Gorsuch were also in favor of the Colorado baker. 

---

"@vonderleyen

Today we are presenting our European Vaccine Strategy. Joint action at
EU level will increase the chance of finding a vaccine and secure
necessary volumes at a good price in the EU and beyond."

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The fastest decentralized currency just got another upgrade. Let’s finish the digital money revolution. <a href="https://t.co/StrY9CSBG3">https://t.co/StrY9CSBG3</a></p>&mdash; Colin LeMahieu (@ColinLeMahieu) <a href="https://twitter.com/ColinLeMahieu/status/1272992872015544321?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Mitsui invests $25m in FirstElement Fuel"

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/mitsui-invests-25m-in-firstelement-fuel/)

---

No, it's a [1st Wave concept](../../2020/07/agro-slavery.md).

"Slavery is a black concept"

---

Non-Muslims as percentage of the population during Otto days, in 1884,
data from [here](http://psi424.cankaya.edu.tr/uploads/files/Shaw,%20Ott%20Census%20System%20and%20Pop,%201831-1914%20%281978%29.pdf)

```python
print (np.round(4553 / 17143. * 100.),'%')
```

```text
27.0 %
```

That's a lot of non-Muslims.. Sad so many are gone.

---

Cornel West: "[I]n 313, and Christianity became the official religion
of the Roman Empire under Theodotius the First, his successor. And of
course, this is the same Roman Empire that put Jesus to death. So one
of the real ironies is here you have the cross, the bloody cross which
is the symbol of the night side of the Roman Empire. That's where
political prisoners were murdered, right? That same empire makes the
movement that comes out of the death of Christ, which is Christianity,
the official religion. So, you get diffusion of this religion with the
state and what we have today in the Christian right are Constantinian
Christians. They are imperial Christians. They have lost the prophetic
fervor of the very Jesus Christ that they proclaim as their savior"

[Link](http://davidwilliamson.blogspot.com/2006/07/cornel-west-on-constantine-and-america.html)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr">Yes. <a href="https://t.co/uk0Sy2nrex">https://t.co/uk0Sy2nrex</a></p>&mdash; Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) <a href="https://twitter.com/BCAppelbaum/status/1273096994572173318?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This is in philly for like the last three weeks. Every single night. Sometimes as late as 3/4am. Shits weird.</p>&mdash; Michael Knight (@mikeknightmedia) <a href="https://twitter.com/mikeknightmedia/status/1273100299939581956?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@realtahiramin

Spoke with @PitchforkEcon about how our failing market-based drug
development model and unhealthy dependence on patent monopolies have
failed to meet the challenge of #COVID19 and emerging public health
issues. Listen below"

[Link](https://pitchforkeconomics.com/episode/vaccine-development-needs-new-incentives-with-tahir-amin/)

---

Awesome

"The PlayStation 4 may be the latest and greatest video game console,
but the chip from the original PlayStation has gone where no video
game console has gone before: To Pluto.

According to The Verge, the CPU from the original Sony video game
console was used in NASA's New Horizons space probe, that just did a
flyby of the distant planet.

The MIPS R3000 CPU was repurposed in 2006 by the space agency to “fire
thrusters, monitor sensors, and transmit data.” Now it’s traveled 3.6
billion miles through space. That’s a distance so vast, it’s pretty
much impossible to grasp the enormity of it by just reading a
sentence. ..

According to The Verge, NASA prefers reliability over power—and what’s
more tried and true than a CPU used in millions of PlayStation
consoles?"

[Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2015/07/16/the-pluto-spacecraft-is-running-on-an-original-playstation-cpu)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">No one is more convinced they&#39;re not racist than white guys who brag about being ass men</p>&mdash; Rachel McCartney (@RachelMComedy) <a href="https://twitter.com/RachelMComedy/status/1272965755370442753?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

No. The US non-insistence is part of the assimilation actually, it
works well.. 10 times better than the TR approach. If TR appr was used
in US, [here is](../../2020/04/turks-culture-national-narrative.md#amish)
how it would go. 

"But then should we tell ppl to supress their 'identity' as deluded as
it might be, like in TR?"

---

Dumbass talking abt tomato sauce thinking it is Italian when in fact
tomato is very much American, it was brought back to Europe from the
Americas.  [Faux Ambassadors](../../2019/11/faux-ambassadors.md).


---

My niggers...

"Anatolian people never seem to have been big fans of [Otto] wars or
military life. According to the historian Erik-Jan Zürcher, by the end
of the first World War the number of deserters ..  had 'increased to
nearly half a million, a number far higher than that of the soldiers
remaining in the field'

[Link](https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/turkeys-glorious-hat-revolution/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">China attempts to deescalate from recent conflict with India which resulted in casualties on both sides.</p>&mdash; DEFCONWarningSystem (@DEFCONWSALERTS) <a href="https://twitter.com/DEFCONWSALERTS/status/1272943097572253696?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Bill Clinton truly doesn’t get the credit he deserves for putting the nail in the coffin of American democracy. His deregulation of Wall Street and media was the beginning of the end.</p>&mdash; dilan (@dilanpcook) <a href="https://twitter.com/dilanpcook/status/1272828696102125568?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Piketty says tax the rich at 80%.

---

Yeah but bcz of [Broken Windows](https://taibbi.substack.com/p/where-did-policing-go-wrong)
mentality he kept going at the guy.. Cop is thinking 'why is the dude
sleeping there..  there has to be more to this... lemme probe some
more..  some more..' and the guy snaps. IMO that was the training in play
there.

"@AJRoss_TV

The officer who killed Rayshard Brooks had just completed
de-escalation training on 4/24/20 and deadly force training on 1/9/20
and yet here we are"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/AJRoss_TV/status/1272203491814055936)

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Scientists from <a href="https://twitter.com/KyushuUniv_JP?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@KyushuUniv_JP</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/kumamotoUniv_PR?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@KumamotoUniv_PR</a> in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Japan?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Japan</a> have developed a new catalyst capable of assisting three key reactions for using <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> in energy and industry.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a><a href="https://t.co/qeqhdPGl4P">https://t.co/qeqhdPGl4P</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1272906792704659459?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;Gorsuch does not hesitate in correctly referring to Aimee Stephens — the transgender plaintiff — as &#39;she.&#39; This may seem like a simple gesture. Yet it stands as a towering rebuke of judges who have recently issued decisions that cruelly misgender transgender plaintiffs.&quot; <a href="https://t.co/UlNZePq08l">https://t.co/UlNZePq08l</a></p>&mdash; Michael Bloch (@MichaelBloch15) <a href="https://twitter.com/MichaelBloch15/status/1272683995176853511?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">god fucking damnit chomsky why</p>&mdash; Punished Sanders (@AndrewThe_Jew) <a href="https://twitter.com/AndrewThe_Jew/status/1251396291218870272?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/reyy9ASpMSc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">An inequality for the good denizens of a pale blue dot. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/math?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#math</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/algebra?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#algebra</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/calculus?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#calculus</a> (It arose from a lemma I was trying to prove.) <a href="https://t.co/5uzcsgObjL">pic.twitter.com/5uzcsgObjL</a></p>&mdash; Sam Walters ☕️ (@SamuelGWalters) <a href="https://twitter.com/SamuelGWalters/status/1272806387156836352?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣

"We are not really competing against them.. Our truck is a true pick-up truck"

[Link](https://youtu.be/xN8tUQoZg_s?t=217)

---

Info from T. Milton on Nikola

[Link](https://youtu.be/xN8tUQoZg_s?t=150)

---

Plus there is that annoying detail that US played a huge part turning
China into what it is today. 

---

Even if you were correct, that CH is doing well, and here I'll give
you the Fareed Zakaria response; what if you are not China? Get it?
He is trying to say 'what if you are one of those countries who for
whatever reason do not have capable ppl at the helm but now you are
stuck, bcz u have no democracy, you cannot change them'.

The results [I shared](../../2016/11/why-is-democracy-better.html)
on democracy show clearly, with all things considered, overall,
democracy works, so by default countries should prefer that. I dont
think anyone can replicate China's freak experiment.

"If democracy works so well, look at China, they are managing"

---

Cool.. `/sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/` has `charge_now` file for
notebook battery stat, `charge_full` for full (non-100 number). Do
little math u get pow status in perc on the cmd line.

---

“When the express terms of a statute give us one answer and
extratextual considerations suggest another, it’s no contest. Only the
written word is the law, and all persons are entitled to its benefit.”
— Gorsuch

---

"@EFF

Legislators are repeatedly told to support building slower networks
because they appear to be "cheaper" to build. But the reality is that
low expectations have cost the public billions, with little to show
for it"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/EFF/status/1272663173724700674)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">10:08 EST? It&#39;s <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2time?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2time</a>.<a href="https://twitter.com/nikolamotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolamotor</a>&#39;s <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> electrolyzer purchase order this week was BIG. How big? This big. 👇 cc: <a href="https://twitter.com/bjornsimonsen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@bjornsimonsen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolatrevor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolatrevor</a> <br>(<a href="https://twitter.com/IEA_Hydrogen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@IEA_Hydrogen</a> data is ... contentious, but was publicly available.) <a href="https://t.co/dc05X21pGg">pic.twitter.com/dc05X21pGg</a></p>&mdash; Matthew Klippenstein (@ElectronComm) <a href="https://twitter.com/ElectronComm/status/1268907426440531968?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 5, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">France: Minister of Transport Supports Plans for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> Plane-Minister recently announced that ministry would support plan to launch a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/greenhydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#greenhydrogen</a> aircraft. Government plans to spend 1.5 billion euros on R&amp;D--<a href="https://t.co/uqf5BocYmE">https://t.co/uqf5BocYmE</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemissions?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemissions</a> <a href="https://t.co/RnUlFkzJPF">pic.twitter.com/RnUlFkzJPF</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1272536324348809217?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

DJT net popularity -14%

---

"@FCHEA_News

A new report from @CalEnergy estimates that \#hydrogen fuel will be
near price parity with gasoline by 2025! This is great news for the
future of \#zeroemission \#fuelcell transportation!"

---

WHEN ARE WE GETTING A FOUNDATION TRILOGY?

---

How come the old man did not see the significance of the 0th
Wave. Amazing. I feel like that telephatic robot in *Foundation*
series who discovered 0th Law of Robotics. Maybe I should call myself
Giskard.

---

Just as large diff between 0th wave and 1st. At one point you are
hunting, gathering, the next the wild animal becomes a sheep and then
your girlfriend. Major difference.

---

Excellent. If you were back at those times, there'd come a time,
within a span of ~50 yrs, before / after of the place would look
drastically different. Before would be carriages, slow life, hand-sewn
clothing, after, train, steam ships, manufactured clothing, much
faster life. Diff between two waves. They are always drastic.

---

"@TheDaiLlew

'Middlemarch is the greatest novel of the 19th Century, charting the
monumental shift from agrarian to industrial England and the
intellectual sea changes of the Romantic era, and if any Bronte Boys
come around here saying different, they’ll be shitting teeth for a
month.'"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr"><a href="https://t.co/AdM4Mx2at1">https://t.co/AdM4Mx2at1</a></p>&mdash; Kenn Coplan (@kenncoplan) <a href="https://twitter.com/kenncoplan/status/1272565474639908870?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Great... My exactly zero doubts on the issue have been properly
assuaged 😑

"Trump says he will leave office peacefully if he loses election in
November"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">consider this a warning <a href="https://t.co/GyU3mPJfMV">https://t.co/GyU3mPJfMV</a></p>&mdash; Ellen Murray #GoodBboy (@ellenfromnowon) <a href="https://twitter.com/ellenfromnowon/status/1272552293104222208?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Without a doubt the coolest thing I will see today!<br><br>Clip of an <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/AiaaAviation?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#AiaaAviation</a> presentation showing vortex shedding &amp; breakdown from sims of a rotor in hover. Mesmerizing visualization from Dr. Jennifer Abras &amp; the HPCMP CREATE team. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/AvGeek?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#AvGeek</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/aiaa?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@aiaa</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/AeroWomen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AeroWomen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/fyfluiddynamics?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@fyfluiddynamics</a> <a href="https://t.co/WJfYLK1zeX">pic.twitter.com/WJfYLK1zeX</a></p>&mdash; Christopher Combs (@DrChrisCombs) <a href="https://twitter.com/DrChrisCombs/status/1272551523600478209?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Australian hydrogen generation set to soar with Sydney-based Amtronics"

---

"@SymbioFCell

\#SymbioWatch Germany plans to become a world leader in #hydrogen
production and transport. France has the potential to lead the race
too"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">You can get a good 5 minutes in before the heatstroke makes you black out. <a href="https://t.co/an2SAf9Mtq">https://t.co/an2SAf9Mtq</a></p>&mdash; Matt Jordan (@ItsMattJordan) <a href="https://twitter.com/ItsMattJordan/status/1272308757876310019?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Today I&#39;m meeting📺 ministers from all over the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EU?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EU</a> at the informal gathering of the 🇪🇺 <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EnergyCouncil?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EnergyCouncil</a>, discussing the recovery in the context of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EUGreenDeal?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EUGreenDeal</a> &amp; the role of innovative energy technologies, including <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/WG5E0hEnVi">pic.twitter.com/WG5E0hEnVi</a></p>&mdash; Kadri Simson (@KadriSimson) <a href="https://twitter.com/KadriSimson/status/1272437083454537728?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Very cool

"@NPR

BREAKING: The Supreme Court has delivered a historic victory for LGBTQ
people — ruling that the federal law that bars sex discrimination in
employment does apply to LGBTQ employees.

The vote was 6-to-3, with conservatives Chief Justice John Roberts and
Neil Gorsuch joining the court's four liberal justices in the
majority"

---

"@matvelloso

What comes after gen Z? Gen A? Or is it gen Z because at this point
we're all assuming it ends here?"

---

"Last year marked an important milestone for the hydrogen fuel
industry, after the world added 1GW of global hydrogen fuel capacity,
crossing the 1GW mark for the first time ever. That represented 40%
Y/Y growth, or double the global EV unit sales growth.

Hydrogen fuel cell stocks have lately been cleaning house: PlugPower
Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG) has soared 50.6% YTD and 81.1% over the past 12
months, Ballard Power Systems (NASDAQ:BLDP) is up 67.6% YTD and 188.5%
over 12 months, FuelCell Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ:FCEL) has rallied 1.2%
YTD and 534.8% over 12 months while Bloom Energy Corporation (NASDAQ:
BE) has returned 16.3% YTD and -17.1% over the past 12 months"

[Link](https://oilprice.com/Alternative-Energy/Fuel-Cells/Hydrogen-Fuel-Economy-Is-Finally-Going-Mainstream.html)

---

Interesting study \#H2

[PDF](https://cafcp.org/sites/default/files/Roadmap-for-Deployment-and-Buildout-of-RH2-UCI-CEC-June-2020.pdf)

---

Remember a tweet exch, dude named Chris was protesting someone's name
bcz it was Islam, saying 'it is overtly religious', then someone
responds, "Okay, CHRISTIAN". Some funny shit.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Urban Aeronautics Signs Agreement with HyPoint, Inc. to Incorporate <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FuelCell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FuelCell</a> Power CityHawk eVTOL design--HyPoint’s hydrogen fuel cell design delivers high specific performance and practical performance-<a href="https://t.co/AmXXSnwXKA">https://t.co/AmXXSnwXKA</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemissions?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemissions</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://t.co/TleApvH10c">pic.twitter.com/TleApvH10c</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1272412773859782657?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Excellent read in City A.M. quoting Jo Bamford as hydrogen continues to attract a massive surge in interest: “Coming out of this crisis we must back green technologies in which we can lead, not just follow” <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/greenrecovery?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#greenrecovery</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemission</a><a href="https://t.co/BRt1le3cJz">https://t.co/BRt1le3cJz</a></p>&mdash; RyseHydrogen #wecantwait (@RyseHydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/RyseHydrogen/status/1272420014272974850?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Scientists close in on 12-billion-year-old signal from the end of the universe's 'dark age'"

[Link](https://www.phys.org/news/2020-06-scientists-billion-year-old-universe-dark-age.amp)

---

Vulcans have only one name..? Spock, and Mr. Spock, never hear any
other name...

The man needs a first name. Like Jake, or Todd. \#Trek 

---

"@rhysblakely

A 70-year-old man in Seattle survived the coronavirus, got applauded
by staff when he left the hospital after 62 days -- and then got a
$1.1 million, 181-page hospital bill"

---

"US State Department demands the removal of mercenaries from Libya"

---

"@kenklippenstein

Feel like it shouldn’t be legal for police to shoot someone who’s running away"

---

When that Nokia pivot to MS happened, lots of Unix, open source ppl I
knew were upset... Nokia should've gone forward with that MeeGo, do
their own thing, in Europe.

---

I'd ditch droid in a second if this becomes viable. Anything that
gives me a true Unix cmd line, and wont trigger 1 GB updates, and not
based on f-ing Java is good.

Has Android compatibility; Cool.

"The European alternative to dominating mobile operating systems

Sailfish OS is flexible, adaptable, and secure, ensuring that all data
remains fully in your own control. Sailfish OS is managed and
developed by European mobile company Jolla, which has a strong
heritage in Nokia and MeeGo OS"

[Sailfish](https://sailfishos.org/)

---

"@FuelCellPilot

Econ minister Peter Altmaier called Germany's \#hydrogen strategy "the
greatest innovation since the EEG".

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Peaceful protest in East Meadow, NY (Long Island): <br><br>An officer abruptly stops so the protestor walking behind him bumps into the cop.<br><br>Then the man is violently arrested. <br><br>Bystanders: “they kneeled on his neck &amp; had about 6 officers holding him down.”<a href="https://t.co/uNK5DOaFRo">pic.twitter.com/uNK5DOaFRo</a></p>&mdash; Rex Chapman🏇🏼 (@RexChapman) <a href="https://twitter.com/RexChapman/status/1271832001364979716?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@samswey

60% of Black people shot and killed by police in Georgia are unarmed
or shot in the back"

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EabeJgdU4AAMGfG?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

Yes Toffler might have said some pro market things. But Heidi Toffler
(the wife) was sufficienty left. And the books are a product of both.

---

"@ProfTolson

I don’t know who needs to hear this but doing everything right won’t
save you. Breonna Taylor was asleep in her own bed"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Can they do the electric slide?</p>&mdash; crummy (@crummysaint) <a href="https://twitter.com/crummysaint/status/1271947781683523585?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Lineker is a legendary UK ball player

---

Hitler would be too I am sure

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Appears to be a few Nazi salutes by those apparently in town to defend Churchill’s statue. I’m confused. <a href="https://t.co/tJsmGqgaK1">https://t.co/tJsmGqgaK1</a></p>&mdash; Gary Lineker (@GaryLineker) <a href="https://twitter.com/GaryLineker/status/1271761587670523904?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Alternative energy company MBR Global has announced plans to integrate <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FuelcellNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FuelcellNow</a> in its micro-grid project that will supply power to two remote villages in Malaysia. MBRG has ordered FCM801 and FCM802 fuel cell modules from <a href="https://twitter.com/intellenergy?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@intellenergy</a> <a href="https://t.co/dx1GZ8rBHX">https://t.co/dx1GZ8rBHX</a>.</p>&mdash; IEA Hydrogen (@IEA_Hydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/IEA_Hydrogen/status/1271856119389007873?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I detected that on the show *Dr Who* out of all places.. Every other
villain was a variation of a Nazi and they constantly brought up WWII

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I think this countries obsession with a war that finished 75 years ago, is not healthy.</p>&mdash; Chris Miller (@chrismiller_uk) <a href="https://twitter.com/chrismiller_uk/status/1271757431215927298?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

That's one less junk info on the Internet.

You are welcome.

---

Great; guy corrected his drone aerodynamics calc after I told him his
doc on the Net was effed up.  He was doing the amateur thing, "Imma
think this through on my own", "uh, like air, has mass, goes
down.. uhhh uhhh" disregarding years of knowhow, the concept of a
*slipstream*. Expertise matters. U can choose to ignore broken stuff
but have to know what the F they are first.

---

I like the slogan.

"@fyfluiddynamics

Celebrating the physics of all that flows"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">before vs. after you get primaried <a href="https://t.co/0ENwHy2ouA">pic.twitter.com/0ENwHy2ouA</a></p>&mdash; Ken Klippenstein (@kenklippenstein) <a href="https://twitter.com/kenklippenstein/status/1271131783514505216?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I thought this was the onion at first<a href="https://t.co/2hh6CVLKj8">https://t.co/2hh6CVLKj8</a></p>&mdash; Justin Joque (@jjoque) <a href="https://twitter.com/jjoque/status/1271492262992674816?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Watched *Rampage* in a foreign language. Looked fine. No idea what
they talked about.

---

*The Atlantic*: "[In the show *Cops* t]he arrestees are often referred
to as 'bad guys,' and they get no backstory, no biography beyond what
they volunteer to the officers in front of them. They’re human beings
reduced to the sum of their rap sheets, or to their mental and
emotional state on the particular day that the cameras are
rolling. The cops don’t get much more by way of characterization,
although they occasionally throw out one-liners to the accompanying
cameramen to acknowledge the viewers at home.

I was reminded of this detail when Officer Tou Thao of the Minneapolis
Police Department cracked, 'This is why you don’t do drugs, kids,' to
the assembled crowd watching the killing of George Floyd in real
time. The line struck me as something someone might say if they had
grown up watching *Cops*, and had absorbed the show’s motifs as emblems
of police work. In *Cops*’ world, the police are by default the good
guys, because theirs is the only point of view the camera
follows. Fleeing suspects must be captured because—on *Cops*—they’re
always guilty of something. And the structure of the show’s acts,
punctuated by ad breaks, means that the good guys unfailingly capture
and overpower the bad guys in a matter of minutes.Never have these
qualities felt so out of touch.

That *Cops* was still in production shocked some people this week, given
how much it seemed like a relic of the late ’80s and ’90s, something
unearthed from a time capsule alongside The Tracey Ullman Show and the
'Just Say No' antidrug campaign. But that the series was finally
canceled by the Paramount Network, where it had moved after 25 seasons
on Fox, was less surprising"

---

♪♬ Bad boys .. Bad boys ♪♬ .. Watcha gonna doo? Watcha gonna do when
they come for you? ♪♬

---

TV Show COPS canceled?

---

"@jkylebass

US response is coming. Hope you CCP tabloids are ready for what’s
next. You will not extinguish the freedoms that have burned for over a
century. Global Times propaganda should be labeled as such. Big red
letters. 

'@globaltimesnews

As more external forces are involved in #HK's internal affairs,
#China's determination to legislate national security laws for
\#HongKong becomes stronger. China has expressed its strong
dissatisfaction to the \#UK over its six-monthly report on HK: Chinese
FM'"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">.<a href="https://twitter.com/hazergroupltd?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@hazergroupltd</a> has successfully completed an $8.4m share placement for its biogas to green <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> production facility – a major milestone in scaling up the technology. <a href="https://t.co/PmQ0mzVI7v">https://t.co/PmQ0mzVI7v</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1271371305170939904?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@angie_rasmussen

Maybe someone should rename this pandemic 'voter turnout' so that
Brian Kemp will actually make an effort to suppress it.

'@CharlieGileNBC

Georgia Governor Brian Kemp announces, effective June 16, restaurants
no longer have limits on patrons or party numbers. Servers are only
required to wear masks while interacting with customers.'"

---

It doesn't sound like Jesse has it in him. The environ arnd him
doesn't look like conducive for a run either. 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">It remains amazing to me that Ankara has lost its F-35 and has no coherent plan beyond TFX to replace either the F-16 or F-4<a href="https://t.co/y5vJIES4tP">https://t.co/y5vJIES4tP</a></p>&mdash; Aaron Stein (@aaronstein1) <a href="https://twitter.com/aaronstein1/status/1271466187067723776?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@JoSamps92

The Scottish Government has today announced a £62m Energy Transition
Fund support package to help deliver a net zero future"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1271442549253775363)

---

*Blindspot* is following trends well.. One ep they had characters
experience cabin fever, in this one they had main character (a cop)
deal with his anger issues, some past killings.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Anonymous student feedback at the end of the robotics course:<br><br>What is the most important thing you learned in this course?<br><br>- “Robots run on a lot of scary math, but isn&#39;t that scary once you learn how it works” 😎</p>&mdash; David Saldaña (@dsaldana1) <a href="https://twitter.com/dsaldana1/status/1271314664861732866?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a>-powered passenger planes ✈️ are realistic. There is considerable interest within the sustainability sector to help the aviation industry move towards its green goals. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CleanRecovery?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CleanRecovery</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/simple_flying?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@simple_flying</a> 👇🏻<a href="https://t.co/l5hzsuAgSl">https://t.co/l5hzsuAgSl</a></p>&mdash; 𝔻𝕠𝕞𝕚𝕟𝕚𝕢𝕦𝕖 𝕃𝕖𝕔𝕠𝕔𝕢 🌏 (@Lecocq_dom) <a href="https://twitter.com/Lecocq_dom/status/1271304562591186944?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Germany's culture code for itself is ORDNUNG. This is their
"body-image", how they see themselves, want to be. The code can
conjure up images of people walking in a single file, like automatons
but ORDER isn't necessarily that. It could simply be absence of
chaos. Also for an unchaotic process, you need to know the
fundamentals of a situation, then a system can be designed to handle
it. Take Berlin U-Bahn, there is no charge at the station
entrance. You just freely walk in hop on the train. You have to have a
ticket on you when you are on the train, but there is no stringent
check at early entrance. This speeds up entry, exits. There are / can
be checkers in the trains, enough of them that if you make a habit of
not paying you'll eventually get caught. So everyone buys a
ticket. No chaos.

---

John Adams: "As he explained to Jefferson, [Adams thought a] simple,
perfect democracy had never yet existed. The whole people were
incapable of deciding much of anything, even on the small scale of a
village. He had had enough experience with town meetings at home to
know that in order for anything to be done certain powers and
responsibilities had to be delegated to a moderator, a town clerk, a
constable, and, at times, to special committees"

---

I met Weckl on Sam Ash NYC, had a drum head signed.

Never got to meet the great Peart though, too bad. And now he passed
away. 

---

How come I can find everyone else except Dave Weckl playing Festival
de Ritmo (his song), on YT?

This girl does it pretty well though

[Link](https://youtu.be/5jDVZPzfS1c?t=55)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">According to a recent servery conducted by the American Burea of Shipping (ABS), shipowners see ammonia and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> as the most attractive fuel options for the long term. <a href="https://t.co/EJqSNWc9O1">https://t.co/EJqSNWc9O1</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1271346303373660161?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Hyundai on Why the Auto Giant Bet on Fuel Cells

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/amp/news/articles/2020-06-09/hyundai-s-hydrogen-chief-on-why-the-auto-giant-bet-on-fuel-cells#click=https://t.co/3YKgccY0Dj)

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Swedish Housing Powered 100 Percent by Sun and Hydrogen - FuelCellsWorks <a href="https://t.co/FEhBn70AJL">https://t.co/FEhBn70AJL</a></p>&mdash; Tixhon Jean Marc (@tixhonjm) <a href="https://twitter.com/tixhonjm/status/1271196319424667648?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Wore my mask at the grocery store and a person not wearing one rolled their eyes at me. As if they want to play that game with me. My eye roll is LEGENDARY, FRIENDO</p>&mdash; Jewel Staite (@JewelStaite) <a href="https://twitter.com/JewelStaite/status/1271156337548734465?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Lota cons look dazed, confused, as if woke up wout much sleep middle
of the night. These protest must be their worst nightmare.

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

