# Week 34

The Guardian: "Trouble for Trump as Fox News praises 'enormously
effective' Biden speech"

---

"@_RichardHall

Exclusive: Carter Centre to launch first-ever US election initiative,
citing 'erosion' of democracy in the country. The organisation,
founded by Carter, monitors elections in hotspots around the
world. This is the first time it has worked in the US"

---

haha

@A_J_Higgins

'How did the Russians get so far ahead of [US] in rocket technology?'
'Because Their Germans were better than our Germans.'

---

I get a *Men In Black* vibe... musta been inspired by TFE

---

The Fifth Element, such a kooky movie.. 

---

"A single high-pressure system rolling in from the Southwest initiated
the heat wave and the thunderstorms, which together created the
conditions for the fires, which will likely both exacerbate and be
exacerbated by the pandemic, which has diminished firefighting
resources and, along with the heat wave, contributed to the blackouts
by keeping people at home with their air-conditioning on full
blast. These overlapping disasters compound"

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2020/08/exponential-threat-pandemic-wildfires/615574/)

---

Nice. And 19th century math isn't that bad. They had a lot of what's
there today.

Wolfram on Feynman: "Some scientists (myself probably included) are
driven by the ambition to build grand intellectual edifices. I think
Feynman—at least in the years I knew him—was much more driven by the
pure pleasure of actually doing the science. He seemed to like best to
spend his time figuring things out, and calculating. And he was a
great calculator. All around perhaps the best human calculator there's
ever been.

He always just used regular calculus and things. Essentially
nineteenth-century mathematics. He never trusted much else. But
wherever one could go with that, Feynman could go. Like no one else"

[Link](https://www.stephenwolfram.com/publications/short-talk-about-richard-feynman/)

---

Signalrunners - Recoil \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/FRXR-5vMoUM)

---

In the early day of modern physics they could probably recover $G$
from the small $g$. They knew the circumf of earth, so they could know
radius, a rough mass (from volume), u get small g through experiment
with dropping object etc, then $G = g r^2 / m_2$,

```python
m2 = 5.972e24 # kg
r = 6371000 # meters
g = 9.8
G = g*r**2 / m2
print (G)
```

```text
6.660724745478902e-11
```

A rough approx but usable. 

---

Colorado has its own Secretary of State?

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I won?t allow <a href="https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@realDonaldTrump</a> to send law enforcement to polling locations to intimidate voters. This is designed for voter intimidation, indistinguishable from tactics used against black voters in the Jim Crow South.</p>&mdash; Jena Griswold (@JenaGriswold) <a href="https://twitter.com/JenaGriswold/status/1296853672052183041?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Just watched another mobile home showcase video where the owner said
they installed solar panels, utilizing their setup at 30% capacity and
it was enough for them. There is so much unused solar potential.

---

"@MitchFound

Cleaner but not clean. Scientists say natural gas is emerging as one
of the biggest drivers of climate change"

[Link](http://ow.ly/P6bo30r5C7q )

---

*First Contact*, the Borg develop resistance for beam weapons, Picard
goes to holodeck disables safety, shoots Borg with old-fashioned
bullets. Kinda roundabout way of fighting an enemy no?. Why wld u give
up on projectile weaponary in the first place?

---

"@Control_Design

U.S. manufacturers reevaluating relationship with China says
survey. Business plans are being rewritten and many are planning to
leave China in the wake of coronavirus"

[Link](https://bit.ly/2Qdn9PZ)

---

"@abbydphillip

Big development in the hearing so far: DeJoy has now committed to
processing election mail as first class mail regardless of the postage
used. CNN had obtained docs showing that this year USPS planned to
treat election mail as marketing mail (slower) if it was mailed that
way"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Biden just recited the slogan of the Sunrise Movement.</p>&mdash; Kaniela Ing (@KanielaIng) <a href="https://twitter.com/KanielaIng/status/1296644458121801728?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Contract awarded: Complete fueling solution and 12-year hydrogen supply.<br><br>The province of South Holland has entered into a long-term contractual agreement with Everfuel for the fueling of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ZeroEmission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ZeroEmission</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> buses.<br><br>Press: <a href="https://t.co/WmWBoxeBGq">https://t.co/WmWBoxeBGq</a><br> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GreenTransport?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GreenTransport</a> <a href="https://t.co/UHkzHNSxAH">pic.twitter.com/UHkzHNSxAH</a></p>&mdash; Everfuel (@EverfuelEU) <a href="https://twitter.com/EverfuelEU/status/1296486446090641409?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Glad PySPH is there, but they do code generation, too reliant on
`cython`. I am almost certain they could gain the same speed with
`numba` wout code gen.

Also MayaVi usage is obtuse.

The "Hello World" app for SPH is dam break. Gotta get that done,
simply.

---

Rhythm Heritage -- Theme From S.W.A.T.

[Link](https://youtu.be/LHDg96-ZN_U)

---

The Crystal Method - Born Too Slow (Deepsky's Green Absinthe Dub Mix) \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/gBHjcv_D4V4?t=35)

---

Mathematicians knew things other the Calculus then; advanced
polynomials, power series, geometry and how to use all of that for
planetary calc. I doubt regular Calc student can do any of that today.

The tweet is essentially pitting Isaac Freaking Newton against any
student who knows Calculus. IN would clean their clock. Any good
mathmatician of that era would too.

"@AnalysisFact

Once you learn calculus, you've caught up to what was the cutting edge
of math in 1687"

---


<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/446628630" width="340"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<p><a href="https://vimeo.com/446628630">Hyperion XP-1 Reveal</a> from
<a href="https://vimeo.com/user119552667">Hyperion</a> on <a
href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p>

---

Could be useful as antibiotic resistant bugs become more common.

"Honey better treatment for coughs and colds than antibiotics, study claims"

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2020/aug/19/honey-better-treatment-for-coughs-and-colds-than-antibiotics-study-clams)

---

Marcos Valle - Escape \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/NIG2tDuR_M8)

---

With advances on three things, such living can skyrocket even more; 1)
cheap, light storage of solar energy 2) easy recycling, destroying of
bio waste 3) quick, air transportation of goods to anywhere in the
world (retail drone delivey).

---

To repeat: 20 million Americans live in mobile homes. 

---

People think tiny housers "give up" on bigger space, but they actually
gain space outside. Plus this guy uses the wheels as suspension
mechanism against earthquakes. Sleek!

[Link](https://youtu.be/o84oMGBkx1k)

---

"Real fluids, even liquids like water, change their volume. In fact,
that’s just what sound waves are: perturbations in the volume (and
thus density and pressure) of the fluid. You may once have been taught
that the difference between liquids and gases was that gases change
their volume but liquids don’t, but that’s not really true: otherwise
you wouldn’t be able to hear underwater!"

---

"Over 70 Republican National Security Officials Endorse Biden"

[Link](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jemimamcevoy/2020/08/20/over-70-republican-national-security-officials-endorse-biden-deem-trump-dangerously-unfit-for-president/#43c91b505375)

---

"Although there is little consensus on the questions of when and how
the previous era ended—or what it means for the future—something of a
common understanding is beginning to emerge: The golden era of the
'90s was never golden to begin with. Like Gibbon’s Rome, it was
structurally and irretrievably defective, compromised by the arrogant
belief in its own myth of inevitable superiority. ...

Today’s problems are the *result* of that era’s mistakes. ... 

In 20 years, we have discovered that ..  the nation-state did not die
... that the globalized economy is out of kilter"

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2020/08/brexit-trump-china-90s-golden-era/615406/)


---

Ursula 1000 feat Sal P-Stand Up Straight (In Flagranti Remix) \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/eq9xMall-Vw)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">South Korea sees <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> as a new engine for economic growth and central to the country’s shift to a low-carbon economy in the long-term. According to estimates, the size of the hydrogen industry in Korea is $12bn in 2020... <a href="https://t.co/CW29xQok2W">https://t.co/CW29xQok2W</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1296358248065400832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I remember when 56 murders in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Louisville?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Louisville</a> was called a community crisis.</p>&mdash; Philmonger (@phillipmbailey) <a href="https://twitter.com/phillipmbailey/status/1296334312393060352?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@ericbradner

This roll call has been much more interesting than speeches and
shouting from a convention floor. Seems likely this will be the way
it's done moving forward"

---

[The hat](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EfwcLhDWsAE0X39?format=jpg&name=small)

---

"Black Officer Fired From Greensboro Police Department For Condemning
Treatment Of George Floyd"

[Link](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/black-officer-who-condemned-treatment-of-george-floyd-on-tiktok-fired-from-greensboro-police-department/amp/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I worked for them for two and a half years, and I completely agree with you.</p>&mdash; Scott Feeney (@graue) <a href="https://twitter.com/graue/status/1296201179899158528?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@phillipmbailey

\#BreonnaTaylor law banning no-knock warrants spreading to other
states... here is a \#Pennsylvania lawmaker. \#BlackLivesMatter"

---

*Superman*, another immigration story. And who played the father in
the 1978 movie? 

Now the role goes to the "highest ranking foreigner" in Holywood; Russell Crowe.

---

Ed Norton is right too; *The Godfather* is an immigration
story. Remember the father didn't want "the life" for his son, saz to
the son near the end. That is the defining scene for the mov IMO

---

"The irony is that Capra, born dirt poor in Sicily and an Italian
immigrant with all the Italian mobster stereotypes that went with it,
best depicted the American dream of the greatest generation in his
movies. He showed that it was possible to become a full American and
not persist in an ethnic ghetto"

[Link](https://www.wsj.com/articles/capra-beats-coppola-in-immigrant-values-11546358904)

---

Haha "more Coppola than Capra"

[Link](https://www.thedailybeast.com/the-rise-of-calamari-fueled-by-rhode-islands-dirty-politics)

---

Biden: "As a summit commitment of the United States, I will issue a
presidential policy directive that establishes combating corruption as
a core national security interest and democratic responsibility, and I
will lead efforts internationally to bring transparency to the global
financial system, go after illicit tax havens, seize stolen assets,
and make it more difficult for leaders who steal from their people to
hide behind anonymous front companies"

[Link](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/united-states/2020-01-23/why-america-must-lead-again)

---

"Plug Power has developed a new 1kW ProGen fuel cell system for small
scale robotics, automatic guided vehicles (AGVs), unmanned aerial
vehicles (UAVs), and other aerospace applications.

The new system represents Plug Power’s expanding product line through
its acquisition of EnergyOr, a Montreal-based fuel cell systems
company with experience in aerospace fuel cell system design and
application, completed in June last year"

---

GenCell has ammonia based storage system. 100% green.

"@gencellenergy

Why is California suffering rolling blackouts?  Difficult to balance
increasing intermittent resources, reduced reserve gas capacity and
peak power demands due to climate impact... clean DERs & storage will
ease the pressure"

[Link](https://twitter.com/gencellenergy/status/1296099731425329153)

---

"@schwarz

We've considered everything carefully and come up with a plan:

1. Reopen colleges

2. Everyone gets covid

3. Shut down colleges

4. Send thousands of infected students back home to infect every place
in America"

---

Down To The Bone - Smash And Grab \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/zp0OaI6_ysY)

---

Alan Hawkshaw - Girl At The Top \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/rnPEeANA5Hg)

---

Erick E - The Beat Is Rockin' (Fedde Le Grand Remix) \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/afbGuLgOWec?t=77)

---

"@phillipmbailey

... @BarackObama on Wednesday will have to satisfy The Center which
wants things to go back to 'normal' and The Left which says 'normal'
is what led to @realDonaldTrump in the first place"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">If you haven&#39;t had the opportunity, take a look at the Road Map to a US Hydrogen Economy study! With input from over 20 companies, the report details how <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> technology can build a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemission</a> future!<a href="https://t.co/nMZrZYgFWv">https://t.co/nMZrZYgFWv</a></p>&mdash; FCHEA (@FCHEA_News) <a href="https://twitter.com/FCHEA_News/status/1295819248955281410?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@jbarro

As someone who was once a Republican in Massachusetts, I am so pleased
that 'who the fuck do these people think they are?' has finally become
an effective talking point about the Kennedys"

[Link](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/08/17/markeykennedy-family-senate-primary-396746)

---

Good point \#seder \#usps

[Link](https://youtu.be/d3WKPJpj25g?t=99)

---

"Lukashenko’s Fall Is Happening Hard and Fast"

[Link](https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/08/17/belarus-protests-lukashenko-fall/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The earth probably saw its highest temperature ever reliably recorded today: 130F (54.4C) in California.<br>But it&#39;s not a record that will last. <a href="https://t.co/cWu0d9ZLxW">https://t.co/cWu0d9ZLxW</a></p>&mdash; Bill McKibben (@billmckibben) <a href="https://twitter.com/billmckibben/status/1295185598295281664?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Asking businesses not to fire people.. Ronald Reagan turned in his
grave when he said that. I guarantee it.

---

Or like McCain.. Goldwater Republican.. Thrifty, pro-biz, etc.. These
people must feel alienated in this latest GOP, Trump brought leftism
(good but wrong party), and bunch of other stuff into the party.

---

Hasish is a Schwarzenegger Republican isn't he?

---

"@Lecocq_dom

Police cars revolving light Jaguar Land Rover @JLR_News is embarking
on a serious \#hydrogen power research project with the aim of
developing fuel cell-powered versions of its larger vehicles"

---

Bombay Dub Orchestra - Monsoon Malabar \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/gRph1UdR_4g?t=93)

---

Chris Joss - Keep On Digging \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/wVg-0qTsSYs)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Cutting emissions from buses, trucks, ships and planes.<br><br>📕 Read more: <a href="https://t.co/b3VLXYRtni">https://t.co/b3VLXYRtni</a> <a href="https://t.co/pxr3Y9bquD">pic.twitter.com/pxr3Y9bquD</a></p>&mdash; World Economic Forum (@wef) <a href="https://twitter.com/wef/status/1294197066973843456?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This is the Hyperion XP-1, a hydrogen-powered supercar that can drive for up to 1,000 miles on one tank of fuel and can go from zero to 60 mph in a little over two seconds, the company that makes it says <a href="https://t.co/eHL4ulXaMk">https://t.co/eHL4ulXaMk</a> <a href="https://t.co/rnRzVV5G4B">pic.twitter.com/rnRzVV5G4B</a></p>&mdash; CNN International (@cnni) <a href="https://twitter.com/cnni/status/1294990069430923264?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

They probably reached some kind of modus vivendi, which is good, no
need for needless struggle if everyone can get something

"@ChrisMurphyCT

The careful, purposeful steps @BernieSanders has taken to bring the
party together this spring and summer will be a huge part of the story
we tell when @JoeBiden wins"

---

Pryda - Madderferrys \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/Nyp_BtF1pC8?t=274)

---

The marketing around the "Google Killer" Wolfram Alfa was mostly bunk
tho.. SW goes back and forth being ignored and posturing
needlessly...

He is a serious scientist, no doubt there.

---

Our uni legend had it one our CS profs, my Alg I teacher as it turns
out, had code in Mathematica. He worked with SW's ppl I think. During
lecture he'd slip up sometimes and say "cellular automata" when it was
totally unrelated so we guessed this was his area of research. The
area attracted some smart people is what Im trying to say.

---

Stephen Wolfram might have something promising; starting from
computation, emergent physics cld be possible.. You'd hear things abt
his group over the years, one mathematician I know stumbled upon an
invention that had to do solving PDEs using cellular automata, and he
was piled on by Wolfram's people, even threathening legal action for a
patent issue?  Anyway, u gotta be wary of these kind of motherfonkers
tucked away somewhere toiling away on arcane knowhow.. They might just
stumble upon the real thing -- 42.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The size of the gates in Jurassic Park suggests they were always planning on letting the dinosaurs out.</p>&mdash; MehGyver (@TheAndrewNadeau) <a href="https://twitter.com/TheAndrewNadeau/status/1295179407678734336?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


Monaghan, founder of SPH is from Monash U? Some good science coming
out of Oz!

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">U.K. to trial <a href="https://twitter.com/Alstom?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Alstom</a> ‘s zero-emission hydrogen trains in race for net zero <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/greenrecovery?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#greenrecovery</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/emissionscrisis?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#emissionscrisis</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ukhydrogenstrategynow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ukhydrogenstrategynow</a> <a href="https://t.co/8iznUwZorH">https://t.co/8iznUwZorH</a></p>&mdash; RyseHydrogen #wecantwait (@RyseHydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/RyseHydrogen/status/1295280260817260545?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 17, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Sad. And I am laughing. 

"@tixhonjm

Watch but do not laugh!"

[Link](https://twitter.com/tixhonjm/status/1295033816252329985)

---

The Mohawks - Pepsi \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/EoS0001UlI8?t=33)

---

"The momentum from both stalwart players like Cummins and upstarts like
Nikola to deploy zero-emission Class 8 trucks comes as regulators
begin the march toward mandating that a certain percentage of trucks
sold each year produce no emissions. The California Air Resources
Board made history in June by announcing that OEMs will be required to
begin selling zero-emission commercial trucks and vans in 2024"

[Link](https://www.ccjdigital.com/hydrogen-fuel-cell-future/)

---

"RONN Motor Group, today announced the anticipated 2022 release of its
new Hydrogen Fuel Cell SUV the 'Myst', named for the fact the only
emission from a hydrogen fuel cell vehicle is water
vapor. ... Engineered in the United States by a team of automotive
industry experts"

[Link](https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/08/10/2075845/0/en/RONN-MOTOR-GROUP-INC-ANNOUNCES-TODAY-ITS-FIRST-HYDROGEN-FUEL-CELL-SUV-NAMED-MYST-ANTICIPATED-FOR-LIMITED-RELEASE-IN-CALIFORNIA-AND-CHINA-MARKETS-IN-2022.html)

---

They are talking about merely compiling BTW (creating executable
code), not even running that code and checking the result.

"Repeatability in Computer Science.. Only 1/3rd of code could be built"

[Link](http://reproducibility.cs.arizona.edu/)

---

I guess that makes sense, elastic body cld be seen as fluid with a few
constants changed.

Solids are fluids that dont move much?

Or elasticity is left-over fluidicity in solids?

See I like that. Saying more with less. 

---

Shit - SPH can do elastic dynamics too? 

[Link](https://youtu.be/l-f16KjR9Bw?t=498)

---

Glamping, hah.

---

They microwave poo, burning it essentially. 

"@scion_research

After 5 years developing, designing, building and testing prototypes,
our team have demonstrated their toilet technology concept works. It
uses a process called sub-critical wet-oxidation, engaging heat &
oxygen to kill pathogens & breakdown solids"

[Link](https://twitter.com/scion_research/status/1278139514318401537)

---

This guy goes around and showcases tiny houses around the world

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/user/livingbigtinyhouse)

---

Tiny house movement is growing. People convert cargo containers etc
for living space, create simple environment, mostly off the grid,
self-reliant (energy from solar or from fuel stored nearby).

---

🔥 🔥 🔥

Ed Markey

[Link](https://youtu.be/86-3yuzn5UU?t=152)

---

*The Atlantic*: "By the end of March, Mina had identified a culprit:
'There’s little ability for a central command unit to pool all the
resources from around the country,' he said at a Harvard event. 'We
have no way to centralize things in this country short of declaring
martial law.' It took several more months for him to find a solution
to this problem, which is to circumvent it altogether. In the past
several weeks, he has become an evangelist for a total revolution in
how the U.S. controls the pandemic. Instead of restructuring daily
life around the American way of testing, he argues, the country should
build testing into the American way of life. The wand that will
accomplish this feat is a thin paper strip ... It is a coronavirus
test.

Mina says that the U.S. should mass-produce these inexpensive and
relatively insensitive tests—unlike other methods, they require only a
saliva sample—in quantities of tens of millions a day. These tests,
which can deliver a result in 15 minutes or less, should then become a
ubiquitous part of daily life .. The tests Mina describes already
exist: They are sitting in the office of e25 Bio, a small start-up in
Cambridge, Massachusetts; half a dozen other companies are working on
similar products"

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/08/how-to-test-every-american-for-covid-19-every-day/615217/)

---

Truman was **not** a simple farmer. Politicians might allow such
things to be said abt themselves or even help spread the commentary to
help their "man of the people" image. Reality is different. Truman had
lots of experience before he became President. County judge, Civil
Works admin, Senator, worked at a high-profile commitee, Vice
President, *then* Potus.

"But anyone can serve at the highest office look at Truman he was a
simple farmer"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Turning literally *everything into a partisan culture war has real consequences, especially for people who don’t have the luxury of caring about them. <a href="https://t.co/usNEaZAuoy">https://t.co/usNEaZAuoy</a></p>&mdash; S.E. Cupp (@secupp) <a href="https://twitter.com/secupp/status/1294842851382235136?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Update: California heatwave now expected to be much more intense, prolonged, and dangerous than initially anticipated. (Hence, the new blog post.) This one reminds me of July 2006 in many ways... <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CAwx?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CAwx</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CAfire?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CAfire</a><a href="https://t.co/UHzYO7Mjhe">https://t.co/UHzYO7Mjhe</a></p>&mdash; Daniel Swain (@Weather_West) <a href="https://twitter.com/Weather_West/status/1294294016205324290?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@vtg2

I’m beginning to think 'hindsight is 2020' was some kind of message
from a future time traveler that we all misunderstood"

---

Private Debt to GDP jumped

`2020-04-01    187.184117`

So did Total Consumer Credit Outstanding as % of GDP

`2020-06-01    21.252590`

The stock market is now more overbought, see Wilshire.

Same old story, stawks good, the rest so-so

Latest [stats](2019/05/stats.md)

---

All posts [on patents](2018/09/patents.md)

---

Knuth [on patents](2020/08/knuth-on-patents.md)

---

Apparently it is becoming a thing in Thailand

<img width="340" src="https://i.cbc.ca/1.5687544.1597443321!/fileImage/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/16x9_780/thailand-protest.jpg"/>

---

That's funny

"A prominent student protest leader in Thailand has been arrested on
charges of sedition as pro-democracy rallies continued across the
country.Parit Chiwarak, 22, whose arrest was livestreamed on social
media, was stopped on the outskirts of Bangkok on Friday night. As he
was physically carried into a car, he raised his hand in a
three-fingered salute – a gesture borrowed from the Hunger Games that
is used by protesters and symbolises opposition to the military-backed
government"

---

"@thehill

Romney breaks with Trump's criticism of mail-in voting: 'I don't know
of any evidence that voting by mail would increase voter fraud.'"

[Link](http://hill.cm/zc3oZch)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Chapter 1: Why Hydrogen?<br><br>1,000+ mi range. 5 min recharge. Ultra-low weight efficiency. Longer vehicle life. Extreme Temperature endurance. Low cost recyclability. <br><br>Hydrogen is the future of electric energy storage, with pure water as it’s only emission.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hypercar?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hypercar</a> <a href="https://t.co/917eU7KUFz">pic.twitter.com/917eU7KUFz</a></p>&mdash; Hyperion Motors, Inc (@hyperionmotor) <a href="https://twitter.com/hyperionmotor/status/1294460895175692288?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"'What I’ve noticed is that, as opposed to everything I’ve done my
entire career, the biggest difference is that in the future there will
be no lines on the battlefield,' Gen. John Hyten, vice chairman of the
[JCS], said.... Hyten who will be a keynote speaker at September’s
Defense News Conference — laid out a vision in which every force can
both defend itself and have a deep-strike capability to hold an enemy
at bay, built around a unified command-and-control system.

'A naval force can defend itself or strike deep. An air force can
defend itself or strike deep. The Marines can defend itself or strike
deep,' he said. 'Everybody.'

That 'everybody' includes international partners, Hyten added, as the
U.S. operates so often in a coalition framework that this plan only
works if it can integrate others"

[Link](https://www.defensenews.com/pentagon/2020/08/14/no-lines-on-the-battlefield-the-pentagons-new-warfighting-concept-takes-shape)

---

"Arab League blasts Turkey's cross-border operations into Iraq"

---

If the "outside countries" want to help, maybe they check their
actions as to not force the core ME to act this way.

"[UAE actions are] unfair and bitter for the Palestinians. But it
corresponds to an irreversible trend: It is no longer Israel , but
above all Iran and increasingly also Turkey that are perceived by many
Arab states as dangerous 'intruders' in their own region"

[Link](https://amp.dw.com/de/kommentar-einigung-zwischen-israel-vae-und-usa-abschied-vom-staat-pal%C3%A4stina/a-54571199)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">“HOW TO MAKE A BLOCKBUSTER MOVIE TRAILER”<br><br>Brilliant.<br><br> <a href="https://t.co/wIzh9iQ3fk">pic.twitter.com/wIzh9iQ3fk</a></p>&mdash; Michael Warburton (@mikewarburton) <a href="https://twitter.com/mikewarburton/status/1294231424246198275?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Redlands Passenger Rail project that will showcase USA&#39;s first <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> powered train is now more than 70% complete. Pic of crews performing work on the rail crossing gate system at Colton Street. Brick by brick, new clean energy transportation is coming. <a href="https://t.co/NTXO6nBBZE">pic.twitter.com/NTXO6nBBZE</a></p>&mdash; RMP (@respectmyplanet) <a href="https://twitter.com/respectmyplanet/status/1294372703709868034?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

`numpy-stl` 👍 Good stuff. Allows accessing of CAD files from Python. 

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>


