# Tweets - Week 26


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Cummins?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Cummins</a> is putting its money where its mouth is with yet another JV in the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> space: <a href="https://twitter.com/_NPROXX?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@_NPROXX</a>, The JV will provide clients with <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/h2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#h2</a> and compressed natural gas storage products for both on-highway and rail applications. <a href="https://twitter.com/Truckinginfo?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Truckinginfo</a> <a href="https://t.co/O13OZrcHu6">https://t.co/O13OZrcHu6</a> <a href="https://t.co/Fk73IvHzlq">pic.twitter.com/Fk73IvHzlq</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen &amp; Fuel Cell Pilot (@FuelCellPilot) <a href="https://twitter.com/FuelCellPilot/status/1276362103876714496?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 26, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@ashleymoirDC

FOX NEWS POLL

FL: Biden 49, Trump 40

GA: Biden 47, Trump 45

NC: Biden 47, Trump 45

TX: Biden 45, Trump 44"

---

"@radleybalko

Percentage of tickets issued by NYPD officers that went to black or
Latino people for . . . .

jaywalking: 99%

riding a bike on the sidewalk: 86.5%

'Campaign To Remove NYPD From Traffic Enforcement Gains Steam'"

---

Damn. This shit is even worse than I thought!!

"@TheEnergyNerd .. Whole used or damaged batteries are classified as
hazardous materials in the US, and Europe requires extensive
documentation"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/TheEnergyNerd/status/1276244607987302401)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The liberal fears the white Juche</p>&mdash; Punished Sanders (@AndrewThe_Jew) <a href="https://twitter.com/AndrewThe_Jew/status/1276222145413201925?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Creality CR10 S4 3D printer < 1000 dollars. Incredible.

[Link](https://youtu.be/zM-IxgED9zw)

---

Maybe Keir didnt like the part that wasn't too excited abt him.

RLB cld have hold off on the contra posts for a time perhaps? Dunno
how this stuff works in UK.

---

This is the article she shared. "Systemic racism is a global issue
.. The tactics used by the police in America, kneeling on George
Floyd’s neck, that was learnt from seminars with Israeli secret
services”

[Link](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/features/maxine-peake-interview-labour-corbyn-keir-starmer-black-lives-matter-a9583206.html)

---

Rebecca Long Bailey (shadow sec, tried to get Lab chief nomination
herself but lost to Keir) asked to step down, for sharing an
"anti-semitic" article?

---

Gobble gobble version is like \#1.

Dane version is odd

"@AdamCSharp

Names for people who read a lot:

1) Bookworm (English)

2) Book flea (Indonesian)

3) Library mouse (Romanian)

4) Read-rat (German)

5) Ink drinker (French)

6) Reading horse (Danish)"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Health care is a right for all — not a privilege for the few.</p>&mdash; Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1276172044925722625?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@JStein_WaPo

Joe Biden notes in speech today that many people are losing their
health insurance during the pandemic because it is tied to their
employment"

---

"@wendellpotter

Amid America's \#COVID19 disaster, I must come clean about a lie I
spread as a health insurance exec: We spent big [dollars] to push the
idea that Canada's single-payer system was awful & the U.S. system
much better. It was a lie"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/wendellpotter/status/1276158510955401216)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr"><a href="https://t.co/PcmmE9VWaD">pic.twitter.com/PcmmE9VWaD</a></p>&mdash; Public Citizen (@Public_Citizen) <a href="https://twitter.com/Public_Citizen/status/1276105956330483714?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Fat Jon - In Position \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/AaOd9Q6xe0Y?t=82)

---

Noone knows. There have been some experiments with modified form of
issue based voting; They sample a group of people from the population,
get them the necessary information on an issue, hoping that these
people become knowledgable enough so they can run judgement on the
issue.  But, who prepares the information? The knowledge in a briefing
could influence a decision..

It's like jury work in US, random citizens are selected to decide on
court case. That duty is no cakewalk BTW, ppl cram into a room and
spend hours in there, listen to witnesses, lawyers, so in a way become
a mini-expert on the issue themselves before they decide.

"How will postmodern governance look like?" 

---

That is modern politics. Centralized, concentrated,
synchronized. Prev post is about products, liking something that
anyone can run a judgement on. In modern gov there laws, regulation,
military, bureucracy "out there" and you send people "in" who know (or
learn, but eventually know), manipulate that system in your
favor.

"But isn't leadership important, as in politics?"

---

"In modern marketing, this idea–that a tiny cadre of connected people
triggers trends–is enormously seductive. ... In addition to The
Tipping Point, there was The Influentials, by marketing gurus Ed
Keller and Jon Berry, as well as the gospel according to PR firms such
as Burson-Marsteller, which claims 'E-Fluentials' can 'make or break a
brand.' ..

Yet, if you believe [social scientist Duncan] Watts, all that money
and effort is being wasted. Because according to him, Influentials
have no such effect. Indeed, they have no special role in trends at
all.

He has analyzed email patterns and found that highly connected people
are not, in fact, crucial social hubs"

[Link](https://www.fastcompany.com/641124/tipping-point-toast)

---

"@skdh

If you have a new experiment that continues to bring up measurement
results that were previously thought to be implausible or even
impossible, how long does your excitement last before you consider
that maybe your measurements are the problem?

'Black neutron star discovery baffles astronomers -- bbc.com'"

---

"@HydrogenCouncil

Countries do not have to choose between economic growth, jobs or
emission reduction. All three can go hand in hand"

[Link](https://twitter.com/HydrogenCouncil/status/1275827184444342278)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr"><a href="https://t.co/jV9VbKM2RB">pic.twitter.com/jV9VbKM2RB</a></p>&mdash; Perfectly Cut Screams (@AAAAAGGHHHH) <a href="https://twitter.com/AAAAAGGHHHH/status/1275184466474881024?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

You always hear "three strikes you are out" type of talk in the context of citizens.. but never hear it for cops. If standards are raised for good behav shouldnt they be raised for policing as well?

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EbV7tSpXYAMN9-X?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

Dude. Dont go there.. especially given the half-baked state of the
tech.

"An Algorithm That 'Predicts' Criminality Based on a Face Sparks a Furor"

---

From The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF)

[Link](https://www.uscirf.gov/news-room/press-releases-statements/uscirf-condemns-turkish-military-operations-in-northern-iraq)

---

Twenty four?

"Madison Cawthorn, 24, beats Trump's pick in North Carolina GOP House
primary"

---

Dude trying to pronounce Afghanistan with a "guh" sound like
"Uf-guh-nistan" thinking he is with it, knows the "local" ways,
virtue-signaling that he is cultured, "knows shit". What a f-ing
retard. I've seen cases when other person did not understand bcz of
this retarded pronunciation. Do you want to communicate, or just
making some kind of bullshit statement, retard?

---

@FareedZakaria

The Last Look, from today's GPS: After hitting America's cities, the
virus is spreading to Republican-leaning areas.

[Link](https://twitter.com/FareedZakaria/status/1274780283871641600)

---

These algos become training data's bitch. No panacea. 

"@ozm

Training these kinds of A.I. systems based on the movements and
arrests of existing police officers is, quite literally, training them
to follow their same bad habits and discriminatory tactics."

[Link](https://twitter.com/ozm/status/1275926741832404992)

---

"@charstarlene

Arrest the cops who killed Breonna Taylor.

Attorney General: Daniel Cameron

attorney.general@ag.ky.gov 

Mayor of Louisville: Greg Fischer

greg.fischer@louisvilleky.gov"

---

"@SulomeAnderson

A cop hit on me when I was 21 and drunk in front of a club. I told him
to go f**k himself. He slammed me against a wall and when I resisted,
wrestled me to the ground and arrested me. I was taken to the precinct
and cuffed to a pipe in front of a drunk tank of men for 18 hours"

---

"@amontalenti

'Always interpret text based communication in the most positive or
charitable way' is a good rule of thumb for folks who are new to
distributed teams"

---

Dude is varying motor speed within same cycle to obtain pitch and
roll. Got game.

---

I saw that paper. Genius. 

[Link](https://youtu.be/d80oXSCcHTk?t=49)

---

<img width="240"  src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DJkR1VEXgAQIypa.jpg"/>

---

Jackass

"@RexChapman

Here’s video of Scottsdale City Councilman Guy Phillips shouting "I
Can't Breathe" before removing his mask at today's Anti-Mask Rally in
Arizona"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/RexChapman/status/1275950050712211456)

---

"@allyjarmanning

Boston is now the second largest city in the world to ban the use of
facial recognition technology. The city council just voted unanimously
for a ban"

---

Haha Kissenger said of Flynn "he'll be gone within a year" when he
took the job. Said he's the wrong type of person for it. Whatever u
might think of the man he knows gov work, and its characters.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I dont know Mr Bowman &#39;s politics, but this should signal that the swamp can be drained. Same with the young man winning the GOP primary to replace Meadows.</p>&mdash; Tutuncommon (@pepvet) <a href="https://twitter.com/pepvet/status/1275818490381897728?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

You say

'it can carry X kg'

I hear

'it can handle X kg of thrust'.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Imagine if there was a competent 3rd party in the US right now.</p>&mdash; Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) <a href="https://twitter.com/EWErickson/status/1275402926132015104?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 23, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Dont see a cop as a person. He is a program. A collection of codes of
culture, expectations, peers, rules and regulations. Nothing "tips",
or happens "in a snap". Find the underlying structure and fix it.

---

"@kenklippenstein

Thinking about how the Congressional Black Caucus endorsed Engel"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">No it’s not. <br><br>Sincerely, <br><br>A Black Karen. <a href="https://t.co/8fCIwPuKgL">https://t.co/8fCIwPuKgL</a></p>&mdash; Karen Attiah (@KarenAttiah) <a href="https://twitter.com/KarenAttiah/status/1275641290013773824?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Bowman is a progressive likely to unseat a centrist. 

"@PpollingNumbers

\#NY16 Dem Primary Results (91.5% In)

Bowman 60.9%

Engel (-Inc) 35.6%"

---

"The End of the Girlboss Is Here . The girlboss didn’t change the
system; she thrived within it. Now that system is cracking, and so is
this icon of millennial hustle. ..  The rise and fall of the girlboss
is about how comfortable we’ve become mixing capitalism with social
justice. We looked to corporations to implement social changes because
we lost faith in our public institutions to do so"

[Link](https://gen.medium.com/the-end-of-the-girlboss-is-nigh-4591dec34ed8)

---

Still in the long-term Mars is a bad idea. Cannot be
terraformed. Better off with one of those Jupiter moons or large
station near Earth. After footprint on the ground I'd ditch Mars.

---

Coaxial propeller design, very cool; maximum lift for given blade
size, power.

Quadcopters are for amateurs.

Get to the dualchoppa!

Not to the quadchoppa!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When our <a href="https://twitter.com/NASAPersevere?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NASAPersevere</a> rover lands on Mars next year, it will be carrying a passenger: the Ingenuity Mars Helicopter, which will attempt the first powered flight on another world. See how the rover will deploy the experimental craft onto the surface: <a href="https://t.co/kJgWmIlpDY">https://t.co/kJgWmIlpDY</a> <a href="https://t.co/RSEnVHwyvn">pic.twitter.com/RSEnVHwyvn</a></p>&mdash; NASA Mars (@NASAMars) <a href="https://twitter.com/NASAMars/status/1275541499149602817?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 23, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Woha. And you know that the ban will stick, wont be negotiated away
through some tariffs

"@deniswirtz

Europe bans American travelers, starting July 1"

---

"[TR oppo party] CHP leader urges release of Selahattin Demirtaş
following court rulings"

[Link](https://www.duvarenglish.com/politics/2020/06/23/chp-leader-urges-release-of-selahattin-demirtas-following-court-rulings)

---

Collected excerpts from  Gen Spaldings's book *Stealth War*

[Link](../../2020/07/china-stealth-war-spalding.md)

---

Well shit. You are playing hardball arent you NYT?

"Slate Star Codex

NYT Is Threatening My Safety By Revealing My Real Name, So I Am
Deleting The Blog"

[Link](https://slatestarcodex.com/2020/06/22/nyt-is-threatening-my-safety-by-revealing-my-real-name-so-i-am-deleting-the-blog/)

---

"@EFF

There is no good reason why California isn't ending the digital divide
by building out affordable fiber to everyone. If we don't end the
digital divide, we perpetuate the inequalities it has created

All Californians should have access to high-speed broadband. Do you
agree? Then write your lawmakers and urge them to support S.B. 1130."

---

"@NOWPayments_io

Congrats to @PayPal and @venmo on rolling out #crypto buying and
selling. The next step definitely is the crypto processing
service. But there's a hint: save time and money and integrate
NOWPayments"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">McPhy Selected to Equip the Largest Zero-Emission <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> Mobility Deployment Project in France and one of the Most Ambitious in Europe: <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ZeroEmission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ZeroEmission</a> Valley--<a href="https://twitter.com/McPhyEnergy?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@McPhyEnergy</a> selected to supply 14 hydrogen stations-<a href="https://t.co/W3BEbuzwdb">https://t.co/W3BEbuzwdb</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/cleanenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#cleanenergy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/h2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#h2</a> <a href="https://t.co/gh2wx0XPFA">pic.twitter.com/gh2wx0XPFA</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1273650589109493766?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I hate to say it, the man was a hero, but Ike, having seen war up
close, and wanting to keep fighting on the cheap might have leaned
little too heavy on spycraft during his Presidency. The Mosdaddeq
thing might have been an outgrowth of that... There was also
"pactomania" during his time in office, prob for the same
reasons.. But the spycraft would have countries, esp developing world
always looking over their shoulders. Funny thing is they always say
that abt Russia that they leaned so much on spycraft.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Great <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EUSEW2020?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EUSEW2020</a> session on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energytransition?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energytransition</a> towards a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/climateneutralEU?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#climateneutralEU</a>🇪🇺<br><br>Thank you <a href="https://twitter.com/IEABirol?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@IEABirol</a> for a forward-looking discussion! <br><br>We will release our first ever Clean Energy Transition - Technologies and Innovations Report with the State of the Energy Union report this Autumn. <a href="https://t.co/gqYGEdx5u3">pic.twitter.com/gqYGEdx5u3</a></p>&mdash; Kadri Simson (@KadriSimson) <a href="https://twitter.com/KadriSimson/status/1275406209428881408?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 23, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

More info on O'Neil stations

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/BeyondNerva/status/1274534553219141634)

---

"@solarrsystem

So today we're talking about O'Neill Cylinders! Space settlements have
always been something straight out of sci-fi, but cool to talk about
nonetheless"

[Link](https://twitter.com/solarrsystem/status/1275214154090123266)

---

Subject to appropriations.. how fast is that happening

"The US Department of Energy (DOE) has announced its intention to
invest up to 100m dollars over five years in two new DOE National
Laboratory-led consortia to advance hydrogen and fuel cell
technologies.

Announced yesterday, the funding will be used for research and
development (R&D) activities and is subject to appropriations"

---

[Answer](../../2020/07/ancient.md)

"But country XYZ is ancient, it has a grand history"

---

Purely text based blogging (markdown) and my editor extension for
running code in docs (markdown or TeX) were two of the simplest things
I've ever coded. But they changed everything, within context of my work.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Major fossil fuel player Phillips 66, is eying UK&#39;s Gigastack Renewable <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> Project, which aims to reduce cost of renewable <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/h2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#h2</a>. Lessons learned could be applied to energy storage and other grid services in the US and elsewhere. <a href="https://twitter.com/cleantechnica?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@cleantechnica</a> <a href="https://t.co/deiA5VQYTm">https://t.co/deiA5VQYTm</a> <a href="https://t.co/uicLiIRe8K">pic.twitter.com/uicLiIRe8K</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen &amp; Fuel Cell Pilot (@FuelCellPilot) <a href="https://twitter.com/FuelCellPilot/status/1275265720025255937?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 23, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@RBReich

The United States incarcerates more people than:

Russia

Brazil

Italy

France

Spain

Germany

Mexico

Turkey

Algeria

Sweden 

Norway 

Finland

UK"

Combined.

---

You can't have a blanket denial of all conspiracies. Otherwise you
would have missed the conspiracy that toppled Mossaddeq in Iran. That
was a CIA plot. "Stuff that sounds weird", "too easy" or "out of the
ordinary" isn't necessarily a bad explanation.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr">Wat <a href="https://t.co/4ssnnRzP1E">https://t.co/4ssnnRzP1E</a> <a href="https://t.co/VjMkLFSlg7">pic.twitter.com/VjMkLFSlg7</a></p>&mdash; Steve Koczela (@skoczela) <a href="https://twitter.com/skoczela/status/1275136580248907776?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">this is all deeply depressing and infuriating <a href="https://t.co/UfSKOguDcv">https://t.co/UfSKOguDcv</a></p>&mdash; Tim Maughan (@timmaughan) <a href="https://twitter.com/timmaughan/status/1275133090407550976?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Poland is loading for bear... You know all that is with Russia in
mind.They are obsessed with Russia.

"Rafael Advanced Defense Systems has joined Poland’s Ottokar-Brzoza
tank-destroyer program"

---

2008 election was about Dubya, the incumbent.. His popularity would
lift or doom McCain (the latter happened). The Bama team kept their
side of things light on details, not much policy, just emphasized the
McCain-W connection (voted with W 90% of the time, etc etc). It worked
(how could it not?), McCain he even joked [about
it](https://youtu.be/pq4zrOoHXeg?t=547).

---

Tommy Lee Jones was in the '95 movie? Did that guy always look old? Al
Gore's roommate.. I saw a pic as student, he still looked old as fuck.

---

Interesting take.. I never liked the Nolan stutff 

"@zachdcarter

Unpopular Opinion: *Batman Forever* is a much better movie than *The Dark
Knight* or *The Dark Knight Rises* ...

*Batman Forever* is fun and good. Christopher Nolan nailed *Batman
Begins* but ran out of things to say and delivered *The Dark Knight*,
which pretends to be a fancy intellectual film but is really vague
fascism with cartoon characters. *The Dark Knight Rises* is just a bad
movie"

---

RIP

"Joel Schumacher, director of Batman films, dies at 80"

---

That's why Tesla's technology is so retarded; they tried to create
something wout gov seriously invervening (except some tax breaks which
simply pushed the inferior battery tech further). BEVs are based
partially on the Silicon Valley dork going "I could put my notebook
battery on a car duuuude", but also having no infrastructure.

In the modern world, real change happens top-down. Through gov
action.

---

Government level involvement in H2 fuel in a major way can change
everything. A lot of things will become "safe" for bi'ness all of a
sudden. They will start innovating more in this "safe space".

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">god, do I miss drinking overpriced cocktails in a crowded hipster bar while someone asks me how long I’ve lived in SF and what I do for work</p>&mdash; Armand Domalewski (@ArmandDoma) <a href="https://twitter.com/ArmandDoma/status/1274819033469075456?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

.. or using alternate timeline just to "spruce things up". 

New Trek does both, no? Starting with that 2009 reboot? Which was
okay-ish, then everything went downhill.

"@timmaughan another day another scifi book description that starts
with 'SPACEBOI'S HOME PLANET HAS BEEN DESTROYED' we need a moratorium
on using genocide as character motivation, it's lazy and gross"

---

EU-China summit

[Link](https://youtu.be/C-0f-YxRVc4?t=118)

---

It's like they have built-in head stabilization software

<img width="340" src="https://i.imgur.com/bHA8ep8.gif"/>

<img width="340" src="https://cdn.zmescience.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/gyro_cat.gif"/>

<img width="340" src="https://i.gifer.com/ZTaN.gif"/>

---

Powell says FED accounts could work too well (destroying private
banks' business). Well I cant blame a guy for not wanting to destroy
the system he's tasked to run. FED sits at the
[center](../../2011/03/fundamentals-of-industrial-ideologies_centralization.md) of a
[concentrated](../../2011/03/fundamentals-of-industrial-ideologies_concentration.md)
system of other banks.

This is why *wave changes* are so great. All individual waves have an
intricate web of internal structures, contracts that hold it
together. Wildly different big thing needs to come from outside
(through leaders of those new constructions, like Nano), implying its
own system.

---

"For decades bigger and bigger colliders got funded thanks to past
prestige, but prestige fades away while costs grew until hitting human
resources and time-scales...

Around 2000 German physicists proposed a new collider, but the answer
was nein. Around 2010 Americans tried, but the answer was no. Next
Japanese tried, but the answer was 'we express interest' which in
Japanese probably means no. Europeans waited hoping that new
technology will be developed while the Large Hadron Collider will
discover new physics and motivate a dedicated new collider to be
financed once the economic crisis is over. Instead of new technology
and new physics we got a new virus and a possible new crisis.

The responsibility of being the last dinosaur does not help
survival. Innovative colliders would need taking risks, but unexplored
energies got so high that the cost of a failure is no longer
affordable"

[Link](http://backreaction.blogspot.com/2020/06/guest-post-who-needs-giant-new-collider.html?m=1)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Well said Albert, let&#39;s consider every solution. 🌿<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EUSEW2020?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EUSEW2020</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/ZRW0sqhmgC">pic.twitter.com/ZRW0sqhmgC</a></p>&mdash; cH2ange (@cH2ange) <a href="https://twitter.com/cH2ange/status/1275038841527812097?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Crazy. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">RELEASE: <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BlueLeaks?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#BlueLeaks</a> (269 GB)<br><br>Ten years of data from over 200 police departments, fusion centers and other law enforcement training and support resources. Among the hundreds of thousands of documents are police and FBI reports, bulletins, guides and more.<a href="https://t.co/sWzdKc2VFc">https://t.co/sWzdKc2VFc</a></p>&mdash; Distributed Denial of Secrets (@DDoSecrets) <a href="https://twitter.com/DDoSecrets/status/1274086005461716992?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

---

I hate to say it, Mustache is right on this one. Especially for *I Am
CRM* types, the advice is __not__ to rely on instinct, conceptualize
things and act through them.

Bolton: "I came to understand that [DJT] believed he could run the
Executive Branch and establish national- security policies on
instinct, relying on personal relationships with foreign leaders, and
with made-for-television showmanship always top of mind.  Now,
instinct, personal relations, and showmanship are elements of any
President’s repertoire.  But they are not all of it, by a long
stretch.  Analysis, planning, intellectual discipline and rigor,
evaluation of results, course corrections, and the like are the
blocking and tackling of presidential decision-making, the unglamorous
side of the job.  Appearance takes you only so far"

---

"@mikeryan

Last night we watched FATAL ATTRACTION and I was shocked Michael
Douglas didn’t even get nominated for an Oscar. I couldn’t remember
who won that year so, all mad about it, I looked up what clown won
instead of Michael Douglas and it was Michael Douglas for Wall Street"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Happy Father&#39;s Day to all you fathers out there except for you know who that MF</p>&mdash; Jose Canseco (@JoseCanseco) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoseCanseco/status/1274724482062540800?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"[E]ngineers at the McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington
University ...  have developed high-power direct borohydride fuel
cells (DBFC) that operate at double the voltage of conventional
hydrogen fuel cells. Their research was published June 17 in the
journal Cell Reports *Physical Science*"

[Link](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2020/06/200618092445.htm)

---

"@IEA_Hydrogen

@nikolamotor has signed a $30 million deal to purchase 85-megawatt
alkaline electrolyzers from @nelhydrogen to build its five initial
hydrogen truck filling stations. The stations will have an 8 ton per
day hydrogen production capacity"

[Link](http://ow.ly/hWfd50A9kyZ)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr"><a href="https://t.co/fcVSg5jJbx">https://t.co/fcVSg5jJbx</a></p>&mdash; Bryan Kelly (@BryanKeIIy) <a href="https://twitter.com/BryanKeIIy/status/1274540332093452289?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"The world’s entire energy system is going to be built around renewable
electricity and green hydrogen. This was an unconventional assertion
to make as little as six months ago. In some parts of the world it is
now perceived to be a statement of the obvious"

[Link](https://www.carboncommentary.com/blog/2020/6/17/renewables-plus-hydrogen-almost-all-that-we-need)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The European Commission has submitted their green <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> strategy that will be worth €140 billion by 2030.<br><br>&quot;A European <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> strategy would maximize the use of green hydrogen, but it concedes that blue hydrogen will play a transitional role.”<a href="https://t.co/zhS79MKwjU">https://t.co/zhS79MKwjU</a> <a href="https://t.co/D0Os8dtZQW">pic.twitter.com/D0Os8dtZQW</a></p>&mdash; H2 &amp; Fuel Cell News🌎 (@H2NewsGlobal) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2NewsGlobal/status/1274421145606017024?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">OK, but can he drink water USING ONLY ONE HAND???? <a href="https://t.co/6REGcMDRUW">pic.twitter.com/6REGcMDRUW</a></p>&mdash; Kris Kanthak (@kramtrak) <a href="https://twitter.com/kramtrak/status/1274678578030968832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 21, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@LizSly

Lebanese are dumping their Ethiopian maids on the street outside the
Ethiopian embassy because they can no longer afford to pay them"

---

A psycic dolphin? This movie rocks man..

\#mnemonic

---

"The AI laws of 2006?". Now that is scifi

\#mnemonic

---

Haha a preacher who is a hitman

\#mnemonic

---

Still largely it feels like a B-movie

\#mnemonic

---

The monologue ..  "I want room service!" :)

\#mnemonic

---

People with masks and shit in Beijing. Prescient 

\#mnemonic

---

Plug-in sockets in the head? Seriously.

\#mnemonic

---

Movie starts a lot like *The Matrix*. And after *Speed* I think Reeves
was a shoe-in for that role.

\#mnemonic

---

Hah, *Johnny Mnemenonic* (dude with hard drive in his head) takes
place in 2021. Dystopia. Corporations rule the world. Whoda thunk?

Rewatching JM now.. 

\#mnemonic

---

"Meanwhile, the artificial leaf concept has been swirling around in
the laboratory...

The basic idea is to skip the electricity middleperson and spark a
reaction in water directly, through solar energy. If you’re thinking
of a photoelectrochemical reaction, run right out and buy yourself a
cigar"

[Link](https://cleantechnica.com/2020/06/20/for-green-hydrogen-artificial-leaf-breathes-down-neck-of-electrolysis/amp)

---

"@FPWellman

This is what the effect of concentrated propaganda has on American
people. He literally has no idea what he’s talking about at all"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/FPWellman/status/1274517577138688000)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Where I come from murderers aren’t fired, they’re arrested, booked and sentenced. If they think this is enough- it ain’t. <br>We demand justice for Breonna Taylor.</p>&mdash; Ron Perlman (@perlmutations) <a href="https://twitter.com/perlmutations/status/1274036992834060288?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Breaking! <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolamotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolamotor</a> factory in Coolidge Arizona breaks ground July 23rd. Ceremony to be held there to kick off construction of plant that will build up to 35,000 <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemission</a> semi-trucks and create thousands of jobs-<a href="https://t.co/VrlnEQTaHz">https://t.co/VrlnEQTaHz</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://t.co/yB6hUlTQH6">pic.twitter.com/yB6hUlTQH6</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1274352998655950848?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

@MaxKennerly

Biden ...  +10 in MI, +7 in FL, +6 in WI, and +5 in PA (states that Trump won in 2016), there has been a massive swing in support for Black Lives Matter

---

I did another econ culling.. removed lots o econ types from TW follow

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Canada’s been quarantining the US since March, so...</p>&mdash; Mika McKinnon (@mikamckinnon) <a href="https://twitter.com/mikamckinnon/status/1274408268635369473?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 20, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Wealth inequality stayed level for 20Q1, with miniscule decrease

```
2019-10-01    0.476
2020-01-01    0.474
```

[Link](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/05/stats.html#gini)

---

"@JohnDeVore

if i still have to take my shoes off at the airport because of a
failed terrorist attack 19 years ago, then you can wear a mask during
a pandemic that has killed over 100,000 Americans

---

"@Hypat1aYu

The only reason why I didn’t find out I loved programming until midway
through grad school was because I was too afraid to mess up my gpa to
take a computer science class... cuz the bell shaped curve really
penalizes risk taking and experimentation"

---

Damn. Slave owners demanded one last harvest before emancipation,
Juneteenth.

Freaking farmers.

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/etanthomas36/status/1273923025507844097)

---

"@RBReich

The fact that Columbus Day is a federal holiday and Juneteenth is not
says a lot ..."

---

"@nntaleb

HAYEK vs PSEUDOLIBERTARIANS For those invoking "libertarianism" in
front of natural calamities, some news for you: Hayek explicitly gives
a role to the "state": protection against violence, epidemics, and
natural disasters. Namely; TAIL RISKS"

---

"@skdh

Here is something that should worry you. Each time I give a public
lecture people come up to me and say they agree with me that building
a bigger collider is currently a nonsense idea. It's a huge investment
with little scientific benefit and basically no societal relevance

I mostly get this from physicists of other disciplines (condensed
matter physicists seem to feature prominently, but maybe just because
there are many of them) but also from particle physicists who have
left the field, both theoreticians and experimentalists 

Yet, there is not a single one of them on the public record willing to
speak out. The reason I keep getting quoted by newspapers and
magazines is simply THAT THEY CAN'T FIND ANYONE ELSE WILLING TO SPEAK
OUT.

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/skdh/status/1274181259963568130)

---

Double-check on Bezos energy projections / fears (10 KW / person, we
will run out of panel space, etc etc)

[Link](../../2019/05/bezos-space-infrastructure.md#energy)

---

Not much; Markowitz model has $R^2$ 90% , conf intervals on the
[prediction](../../2015/04/predicting-2016-presidential-election.md)
are usually tight.

Gelman: "How unpredictable is the 2020 election?"

[Link](https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2020/06/15/how-unpredictable-is-the-2020-election/)

---

It's funny among the three variables only one variable requires human
judgement. All others can simply be observed. Econ effect; voter knows
whether he is richer or poorer. Incumbency for >1 terms or not; that
is a fact. This leaves popularity of the incumbent, the only thing
where a judgement is applied. It works bcz the measure is coarse
(individuals judgement will have errors, normally distributed which
can be [corrected](../../2020/07/crowd-wisdom.md)
through an average).

---

Elections are a vote on the incumbent, on three [broad parameters](../../2015/04/predicting-2016-presidential-election.md).

"GOP fears Biden's low-key campaign is paying off"

[Link](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/503485-gop-fears-bidens-low-key-campaign-is-paying-off)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Please welcome Australia&#39;s first <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a>-powered SUV equipped with a 60kW <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> offering a 650 km (403 mi) range, with a quick fill at the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> pump - H2X Snowy.<br><br>Australia is planning to become a world leader as exporters of renewable hydrogen.<a href="https://t.co/QU5gtQUd6p">https://t.co/QU5gtQUd6p</a> <a href="https://t.co/jfnKBd40PM">pic.twitter.com/jfnKBd40PM</a></p>&mdash; H2 &amp; Fuel Cell News🌎 (@H2NewsGlobal) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2NewsGlobal/status/1274028275421986816?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Nikola Badger hydrogen EV ute coming to Australia"

<img width="340" src="https://motoring.pxcrush.net/motoring/general/editorial/nikola-badger-1-upsv.jpg?width=640"/>

[Link](https://www.motoring.com.au/nikola-badger-hydrogen-ev-ute-reservations-open-soon-124672/)

---

"@esaagar

'The former chief executive of Google has said 'there is no question'
that Huawei sent intelligence to the Chinese government and that the
company poses a challenge to national security.'"

---

"@STOPFLEXIN

you know what law never made sense to me? the fact that it’s illegal
in some states to own a bulletproof vest. the police can throw you in
jail because you’ve inconvienced their ability to kill you"

---

"@zachdcarter

'Paris was a nightmare, and everyone there was morbid." -- John
Maynard Keynes, 1919'

>@John_Stepek Just reading the thus-far excellent Keynes biography, The Price of
>Peace, by @zachdcarter – one striking and inadvertently topical detail
>– while they were at the Paris peace talks in 1919, the Spanish flu
>was raging, and Keynes and most of the key world leaders all caught it"

---

"@syramadad

I've responded to multiple epidemics & pandemics over the years from
Ebola to Zika to Measles, each facing its own set of obstacles. I'm
used to outbreaks being politicized but I've never witnessed this
amount of stupidity that has plagued this pandemic from the get-go by
electeds"

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

