# Week 40

Main news sources currently, *DW* and *France 24 English*, for TV
like, in the background, news talking head type of watching. Less
drama, calmer, and once in a while a good documentary (on DW)

---

Haha a German on DW just used the word *schadenfreude* for Trump.

---

Just playin man.. Dont die on your ppl Trump

---

Of course Pence is all about thoughts and prayers... as in he is
praying for Trump *to die*.

---

Glad to be of help to the US weapons industry.

"@JM_Szuba

Just in: the State Department has approved a potential $417 million
sale to Egypt of a Maritime Domain Awareness system, including fixed
and mobile radar units to monitor and defend the country's "maritime
boundary, natural resources, and ports."

---

I guess that's changed a little bit.. I have to update my act

---

Me and Maria got a condo

---

I like how Kal-eee-fornia calls green vehicles "zero-emission vehicles",
not electric. That wld be fine for me too, technically, a fuel-cell
also generates electricity, but this wording helps to avoid confusion
and widens the definition.

---

And no, there are no parallels here to the EU / UK relation ü§® üôÑ 

---

Everyone who is pro these empires, whether it is Rome, Byzantium or
"Otto" have an agenda.

---


"Like all humanities [archeology] is a product of its time and
Victorian archaeologists were part of a British Empire which compared
itself to Rome, so they had every reason to suggest that when great
empires collapse disaster and chaos follow"

---

There was no barbarism after Romans left Britain. The so-called Dark
Ages is a myth. What a shock.

[Link](https://youtu.be/3f21eVcY3pw?t=309)

---

Azerbaijani gobble gobble speaka sounds somewhat different than
Anatolian version. Same words mostly, but different expressions,
idioms.. ex, apparently they call the football goaly *kapƒ±cƒ±*, "the
doorman". Kinda funny.. And the air travel announcements; their pilots
announce plane landing with the words *the plane will now fall*. Story
goes once when it was announced my tiggers in the plane lost their
shit.

---

You are slipping  Focker. Don't stay in that circle of trust üëå

"Peter Thiel Met With Racist Fringe While Backing Trump"

---

"If all goes according to plan, Plug Power will also move beyond the
humble fuel cell forklift for which it is known, and take to the
skies"

[Link](https://cleantechnica.com/2020/09/24/more-green-hydrogen-for-the-iron-bird-of-the-future/amp/?__twitter_impression=true)

---

"@ZaidJilani

The most consistent thing about media, political media especially, is
it seems to thrive on fear. My whole life it's jumped from one panic
about exaggerated threat to another. It's not left or right, just
panic"

---

:) So I guess she is not a supporter anymore.. when did she fall off
the wagon? Or off the train.. or whatever it's called.. the circle of
trust üëå ?

"@AnnCoulter

I don't think the conservative take on @realDonaldTrump paying no
taxes should be: BECAUSE HE'S SMART! I've paid nearly 50% of my income
in taxes, year after year, and any system that allows billionaires to
pay ZERO is unspeakable corrupt. How about changing it, Democrats?"

---

The Jeremy Rifkin 2002 book is key. It came out in the hell years of
post 2001 and made the first attempt of imagening a post oil future
(bcz it, rightfully, blamed oil addiction for the mishap). Even Dubya
was repeating lines from this book at the time. Sadly post oil turned
into "post ME oil (blaming ME addiction, reaching the conclusion if we
use our own we'll be fine)", US fossil resources were deployed and
another chance on green energy revolution was lost. Of course then
came 'the battery' and its the wild eyed retarded cult followers with
their 'hip certainty' and not enough brains to back it up. Fail
continued.

---

"@econjared

Note the incessant R whining about unemployed people getting gov't
support yet not a peep about their leader paying nothing in
taxes. It's capitalism for the unemployed; socialism for the rich"

---

It is the swing version of a Joey Bongiovi song... U know the one from
New Jersey... Good song too BTW

"The It's My Life jazz song sounded like another song, which was it?"

---

"@econjared

Mitch and Senate Rs who are too busy jamming through their SCOTUS
choice to worry about the economy and people in it [commenting about
income support]"

---

The mintuea of future policy choices never mattered to people the
extent the commentariat thought it did

"The debates are criticized for not focusing enough on policy"

---

"@villi

If you ignore the smoke, it is amazing outside right now"

---

"@EdMarkey

Last week when Chris Wallace released his topics for the debate, the
climate crisis was not on that list. We fought back. Because of our
organizing, last night‚Äôs debate dedicated not one or two, but 11
minutes to the climate crisis"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The UK&#39;s first hydrogen-powered train has carried its first passengers from Stratford-upon-Avon to Evesham.<br><br>The <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydroFLEX?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydroFLEX</a> is still in the testing stages, but it&#39;s believed to be a major step towards removing diesel trains from our rail network<a href="https://t.co/bMJuSYZjLC">https://t.co/bMJuSYZjLC</a></p>&mdash; BBC H and W (@bbchw) <a href="https://twitter.com/bbchw/status/1311182875207835648?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 30, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@gabriel_zucman

Only a few decades old, the corporate autocracy that Reagan unleashed
on the United States is not natural law. It had to be created, and it
can also be undone"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/gabriel_zucman/status/1311480247569674240)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In one of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/gasworld?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#gasworld</a>‚Äôs most-read stories this week, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Linde?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Linde</a> has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with New York-based <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> solutions company <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/PlugPower?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#PlugPower</a>. <a href="https://t.co/hsvTucvufH">https://t.co/hsvTucvufH</a></p>&mdash; gasworld (@gasworld) <a href="https://twitter.com/gasworld/status/1310257906667925504?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 27, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@yarotrof

Macron sounds more supportive of Armenia than Putin, who is a treaty
ally of Yerevan within the Collective Security Treaty Organization"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The first UK hydrogen-powered train has taken to the railwayüöÜüçÉ Transport Secretary <a href="https://twitter.com/grantshapps?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@grantshapps</a> took a ride on the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydroFLEX?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydroFLEX</a> train to see how the project is helping <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> rail<br> <br>Find out how we‚Äôre investing in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> powerüëâ <a href="https://t.co/fj8MXyBn6H">https://t.co/fj8MXyBn6H</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FutureOfTransport?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FutureOfTransport</a> <a href="https://t.co/Di454OjdNB">pic.twitter.com/Di454OjdNB</a></p>&mdash; Dept for Transport (@transportgovuk) <a href="https://twitter.com/transportgovuk/status/1311283290272346113?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 30, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"15-minute coronavirus test gets the green light in Europe.. The new
test delivers results in 15 minutes on a small, portable instrument,
BD said, adding that this is a 'critical improvement in turnaround
time for Covid-19 diagnostics, because it provides real-time results
and enables decision-making while the patient is still onsite'"

[Link](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/09/30/15-minute-coronavirus-test-gets-the-green-light-for-a-european-rollout.html)

---

Awwww sheee-iiit

---

CNBC: "UK trials hydrogen-powered train in latest step forward for
transport innovation"

---

"Australian Government as part of a $1.9bn investment in new energy technologies."

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/australian-government-to-invest-1-9bn-in-new-energy-technologies/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%24PLUG&amp;src=ctag&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">$PLUG</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/yM1tgVDl2k">pic.twitter.com/yM1tgVDl2k</a></p>&mdash; Alex S. (@HydrogenAlex) <a href="https://twitter.com/HydrogenAlex/status/1309238300415197184?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 24, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"The US Department of Energy‚Äôs (DOE‚Äôs) Office of Fossil Energy has
announced up to $2m in federal funding for cost-shared research and
development projects .. Announced yesterday, the FOA will focus on
co-gasification of coal, biomass and plastic wastes for production of
hydrogen and fuels with negative carbon potential"

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/doe-announces-2m-to-develop-hydrogen-technologies/)

---

On Ubuntu Unix... No clickety click shite.

---

Nice. There is a tool to turn PDFs with scanned pages (image, not
text) into searchable PDFs, `ocrmypdf`.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">With this 1st Photon we&#39;re testing tech for exciting future missions of First Light‚Äôs levelled-up sibling, the high-energy, interplanetary Photon. It&#39;s with this spacecraft version that we&#39;ll head to the Moon next year for <a href="https://twitter.com/NASA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NASA</a> &amp; later onto Venus to support the search for life. <a href="https://t.co/JTCsE2VwWk">pic.twitter.com/JTCsE2VwWk</a></p>&mdash; Rocket Lab (@RocketLab) <a href="https://twitter.com/RocketLab/status/1311392187670605824?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 30, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Carter 1980

[Link](https://youtu.be/kXFEh4cdCog?t=4447)

---

2004 candidates were [debating](https://youtu.be/MCDr2uAr8FI?t=2065)
healthcare.

2020 pols are __still__ debating healthcare ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">wow. fox news just asked a climate question at a general election presidential debate.</p>&mdash; Karthik Ganapathy (@kartpath) <a href="https://twitter.com/kartpath/status/1311128163121090563?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 30, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

\#Debates2020

---

Trump talks about giving better healthcare, than hits Biden on
leftism. This is a schizophrenic political discourse. One side of the
political spectrum was delegitimized for too long, and here is the
result.

\#Debates2020

---

Epic debate. Sounded like a lot was at stake. 

\#Debates2020

---

Looking at the timestamps, some claim he knocked that shit out in 20
minutes; 500 lines of code in all. Not bad.

---

:) A patch submitted to a open-source database project by Assange in
the 90s. Legit geek.

[Link](https://git.postgresql.org/gitweb/?p=postgresql.git;a=commitdiff;h=76bc8cb97fc35673c42fe84fe6a9d6887260419a;hp=23c7ff0b3c38657081590430d08ef48bb5bde759)

---

"@acTVismMunich

Julian Assange Faces Inhumane Prison Conditions in the US"

[Link](https://twitter.com/acTVismMunich/status/1311002219655897090)

---

"Denominated in euros". Swell. I wonder if H2 can help turn the Euro
into the global reserve currency...

Oil, plus US military, made dollar the king. A new energy source, like
H2 can do that for the Euro? This time energy is not dug up, but
created by technology. If the tech is supplied to "sunshine countries"
with the promise of selling the produce back, and in Euro, would this
be enough to kickstart a global reserve currency?

The hegemon, could, still theoretically invade but would have a hard
time securing a non-concentrated resource, like was done with
oil? Attacking electrolysers? Harder IMO.

"The¬†European Union¬†has set a target to build 40 gigawatts of
renewable hydrogen electrolyzers by 2030, the equivalent of twice the
capacity of China‚Äôs Three Gorges Dam, the world‚Äôs largest energy
plant. For that, it envisages as much as 470 billion euros of public
and private investments by 2050 and plans to kickstart a global
hydrogen market, allowing the fuel to be traded as a liquid commodity
denominated in euros"

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-09-24/how-hydrogen-became-the-hottest-thing-in-green-energy-quicktake)

---

‚ÄòWe‚Äôve overrun the planet‚Äô - Attenborough

---

"Italy will invest at least 3 billion euros in H2"

---

I bet this is why office-dwelling, technobabbling folk like this shit,
a solution for 1 percenters..  I'd send them to Bolivia, they can
create all the coups they want over there to get their lithium, and
live happily ever after. They cld do two coups a day... one in the
morning, one in the afternoon. 'I need 50 more kilos of
lithium'. 'Okay, we'll just do a coup, and get 50 kilos'. That will be
the system.

---

What is this, a kumbaya moment? 'Let's hold hands and be
friends?'. Are these people retarded?

If bats are 'part' of the solution, they can only be 1% of the
solution. Not 50%, not 30%, not even 10%. One percent. There isn't
enough lithium in the world for that-plus-that approach. And since 1%
isn't viable economically, the battery option is as good as dead. They
have exactly zero place in the future.

"But every solution can play a role, batteries can be part of the
[energy] solution?"

---

FCEL won all four? üëç

"FuelCell Energy, Inc. (Nasdaq: FCEL)¬†... announces multiple project
awards by the local Connecticut electric distribution companies
... totaling 11.2 megawatts, as part of the state-sponsored Shared
Clean Energy Facility program. Each of the four FuelCell Energy power
plants to be constructed pursuant to these awards will supply 2.8
megawatts of clean power to the Connecticut electric grid"

[Link](https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/09/29/2100495/0/en/FuelCell-Energy-Announces-Multiple-Awards-to-Provide-Clean-Energy-to-Northeast-Power-Grid.html)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Californian vineyards provide a roadmap for energy sustainability üçá<br>By using micro-grids fuelled by <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GreenHydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GreenHydrogen</a>, crisis-hit Californian vineyards are finding cleaner ways to source their energy.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Decarbonisation?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Decarbonisation</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/plugpower?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@PlugPower</a> <a href="https://t.co/mYFJf5kzvc">https://t.co/mYFJf5kzvc</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Europe (@H2Europe) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1311211152509083651?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 30, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

FUCK JOBS

---

Paul Anka, It's My Life - Jazz Version \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/tJSByloqesE)

---

By football I mean the sport where u kick the ball around. 

---

Sport means all parts of the player needs to MOVE.

Ping Pong is a sport. Even golf, which is closer to taking a shit than
football, is a sport.

"But what defines a sport? Increased heart rate? [news program trying
to justify calling pro gaming a sport]"

---

Of course.. people in US living near Canada used to cross over to to
buy "cheap" insulin there, right? But now with the border closed they
are screwed. They are like rationing.. and sharing.. ?  This is crazy.

---

"@dailyposter

According to data gleaned from a recent government report, the richest
1% steal $266 billion in unpaid taxes EVERY SINGLE YEAR"

---

Not The Onion

"IRS: Sorry, but It‚Äôs Just Easier and Cheaper to Audit the Poor"

[Link](https://www.propublica.org/article/irs-sorry-but-its-just-easier-and-cheaper-to-audit-the-poor)

---


US has fairly stable neighborhood. Protected by two oceans from both
sides, imperial powers gone, calm Canada to North, now pieceful
relations with Mexico. The neighborhood around the Caucasus, ME, not
so calm.

---

The Daily Poster: "There‚Äôs an impulse to try to turn Trump‚Äôs tax
shenanigans into a story only about Trump ‚Äî as if he is a singular
villain. But while he deserves much criticism for gaming the system,
we can‚Äôt ignore the fact that it is¬†a system ‚Äî¬†one that allows wealthy
people like Trump avoid paying $266 billion of taxes every single
year"

[Link](https://www.dailyposter.com/p/the-two-huge-questions-about-trumps)

---

FUCK JOBS

---

FUCK JOBS

---

MORE ROBOTS

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Record 293,000 robots In U.S. factories. Sales of new robots remain on a high level with 33,300 units shipped in 2019, which is 17% less compared to 2018 <a href="https://t.co/Mqb8U20IyM">https://t.co/Mqb8U20IyM</a></p>&mdash; Control Design (@Control_Design) <a href="https://twitter.com/Control_Design/status/1310613152078409729?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 28, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Bloomberg: "Hydrogen Breaks Through as the Hottest Thing in Green
Energy"

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-09-24/how-hydrogen-became-the-hottest-thing-in-green-energy-quicktake)

---

BTW, once you bet on the simplest, most efficient tech basis (key
decision in engineering) then you can innovate easier on more parts of
the problem, simultaneously. Maybe in the future H2 wont be in tanks
anymore, but in metallic form, or in ammonia, or somewhere
else... These can all be seperately innovated on, while the base
architecture remains the same. So cars can anchor on H2 as fuel, and
further innovation gets you that fuel more and more
efficiently. Infrastructure, adaption, TCO are all part of it.

---

FT: "The world‚Äôs biggest aircraft maker Airbus unveiled 'historic'
designs for hydrogen-fuelled passenger planes on Monday. A few days
later, the world‚Äôs first sizeable aircraft to be powered by hydrogen
took flight. It was piloted by start-up ZeroAvia, based in California
and Cranfield, England. A commercial launch might be just three years
away, it says.

As aviation comes under pressure to curb emissions, investment in
hydrogen is being stepped up. Hopes of using battery technology as a
green alternative to jet fuel are fading. Batteries are just too heavy
for long flights, given their low energy density. Airbus, with
Rolls-Royce, closed a demonstrator project in April. ...

The EU is pushing green hydrogen hard, arguing that it could meet
nearly a quarter of world energy demand by 2050. The UK government,
which backed the ZeroAvia venture, is also keen"

[Link](https://twitter.com/FTLex/status/1309506640337612803)

---

What of the debates? IMO only the last one counts. I'd limp throughout
the first two and open the can of whoop ass on the third. Kerry could
not finish the job on the last one, and did not get the title as the
'winner of the debates'.

---

They are there to tip the balance, to decide between submerge or
rising to surface. I think a sub is built with juust enough weight
right at the edge of that balance; then filling tanks or emptying them
tips the scale either way. Tanks alone could not do that. You can't
balance a force proportional to displaced water with just water.

"But you said subs require weight.. What are those tanks [taking water
in] are for then?"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hydrogen/aviation: coming clean <a href="https://t.co/JoFQo4Q17m">https://t.co/JoFQo4Q17m</a></p>&mdash; The Lex Column (@FTLex) <a href="https://twitter.com/FTLex/status/1309506640337612803?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Habit from aero -- '50 kg craft hover requires 50 kg of thrust' u say,
makes it easier to think about it, technically incomplete, but getting
force from mass is easy, $F = ma$ or $F = m g$, $g = 9.8$
approximately, or 10. For force mass of $m = 50 kg$ is multiplied by
10, becomes 500 Newtons.

"You say weight in kilos but talk about push, as in force, kg is not a
force unit"

---

I'd love to see someone try to make a sub fly. If you see that shit in
a movie don't believe it. It's so heavy... It's like a Boeing with
lithium-ion batteries üòÜ üòÜ üòÜ üòÜ

---

Now we understand why it is always cramped in a sub.

---

An Ohio class sub weighs 16000 tons. 16K TONS. Typical car weighs < 2,
even a Boeing 737 weighs 71 tons.

---

While it looks fun, a submarine hobby might not be practical. Say I
wanted to have a subsurface living environment, width 2.5, height 3
length 6 meters. This means

```python
w=2.5;h=3;l=6
print (w*h*l, 'm^3')
```

```text
45.0 m^3
```

of volume. 1 cubic meter of water is 1 ton. Then, and bcz when you
submerge something same amount of volume of water in weight pushes
back at you, to counteract it and to remain below surface, you need
provide downward pull of 45 tons! You must artificially *add weight*
to keep this thing below water. People use steel, lead, whatever it
takes to make the structure heavy; this complicates things
logistically in DIY terms, hauling something >20 tons in a truck is a
major pain in the ass. Then u need build on site, or in a navy
yard. We r now talking lots of material, hairy logistics.. government
level stuff.

My interests / skillset are mostly around keeping things light, subs
are a different kinda game.

---

Polk.. that was one sneaky son of a bitch.

[Link](https://youtu.be/3OMmxKiG4LE)

---

"Pompeo: Chinese Consulate in NYC Is Espionage Hub"

[Link](https://www.nationalreview.com/news/pompeo-chinese-consulate-in-nyc-is-espionage-hub)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">‚ÄºÔ∏èOur member <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FINCANTIERI?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FINCANTIERI</a> starts dry dock for experimental vessel <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ZEUS?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ZEUS</a> - <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ZeroEmission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ZeroEmission</a> Ultimate Shipüö¢! The vessel will be equipped with a 130 kW <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> system powered by about 50 kg of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a><br><br>Read moreüëâ<a href="https://t.co/kdE4hR86cZ">https://t.co/kdE4hR86cZ</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/cleanenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#cleanenergy</a> <a href="https://t.co/wHk8hwNOsW">pic.twitter.com/wHk8hwNOsW</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Europe (@H2Europe) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1310141850678898694?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 27, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"The Judiciary Act of 1789 established the first Supreme Court, with
six Justices. In 1801, President John Adams and a lame-duck Federalist
Congress passed the Judiciary Act of 1801, which reduced the Court to
five Justices in an attempt to limit incoming President Thomas
Jefferson‚Äôs appointments. Jefferson and his Democratic-Republicans
soon repealed that act, putting the Court back to six Justices. Then,
in 1807, Jefferson and Congress added a seventh Justice when Congress
added a seventh federal court circuit.

In early 1837, President Andrew Jackson was able to add two additional
Justices after Congress expanded the number of federal circuit court
districts. Under different circumstances, Congress created the 10th
Circuit in 1863 during the Civil War, and the Court briefly had 10
Justices. Congress then passed legislation in 1866 to reduce the Court
to seven Justices. That only lasted until 1869, when a new Judiciary
Act sponsored by Senator Lyman Trumbull put the number back to nine
Justices"

[Link](https://www.constitutioncenter.org/blog/packing-the-supreme-court-explained)

---

Changing the make up of the SCOTUS, not unheard of. FDR nearly packed
the court when they started hand-wringing about the New Deal.

---

Whadidasay? World War 3. Telling ya

"Armenia and Azerbaijan clash over disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hello FORTRAN my old friend<br><br>I‚Äôve come to code with you again<br><br>Because algorithms softly creeping<br><br>Random seeds set while I was sleeping<br><br>And the version that was running on my mainframe<br><br>Still remains<br><br>Within the sound of science</p>&mdash; James (@astrocrash) <a href="https://twitter.com/astrocrash/status/1309621918916640769?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
 
---


Zee you fonked it up badly son.. CH needed less authoritarianism, not
more. How u gon get out of this shit?

---

Zee Ping Ping 

---

Ho Dung Lai Lai

---

CNBC: "We're in the 'middle of a breakthrough' for the hydrogen industry"

[Link](https://youtu.be/ELbQT57qeG8)

---

The PQM Project - Babe I'm Gonna Leave You \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/UsU_xp1ynoE?t=113)

---

"@_taylorhudak

Shocking revelations on \#Assange case irregularities & judges' conflicts of interest"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/_taylorhudak/status/1309910266910593029)

---

"75% of UK biz is unprepared for Brexit"

[Link](https://youtu.be/F2W4soC1UHQ?t=352)

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vy3gMVGwjuc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"The cost of proteins will be five times cheaper by 2030 and 10 times
cheaper by 2035 than existing animal proteins, before ultimately
approaching the cost of sugar. They will also be superior in every key
attribute ‚Äì more nutritious, healthier, better tasting, and more
convenient, with almost unimaginable variety.

This means that, by 2030, modern food products will be higher quality
and cost less than half as much to produce as the animal-derived
products they replace.

The impact of this disruption on industrial animal farming will be
profound. By 2030, the number of cows in the U.S. will have fallen by
50% and the cattle farming industry will be all but bankrupt"

[Link](https://www.rethinkx.com/food-and-agriculture-executive-summary)

---

If there are cheap, large scale processes that can generate green H2,
a company like Solar Foods can skip the step of generating it on their
own, just purchase it on the market, speeding up the process.

---

H2 will be required even to produce food! Energy for the car, energy for you!

"Solar Foods, a Finland-based company, has developed a process to use
renewable electricity and CO2 to produce a healthy ingredient that
looks like wheat flour and contains 50% protein. 'Because we don‚Äôt use
sugars, or similar agricultural feedstocks, we can completely
disconnect from agriculture,' Vainikka says. The process uses solar
power to split water through electrolysis in a bioreactor, creating
hydrogen that can give microbes energy as they‚Äôre also fed carbon. The
microbes produce a food that‚Äôs composed of roughly 20-25% carbs, 5-10%
fat, and 50% protein"

[Link](https://www.fastcompany.com/90372330/would-you-eat-a-burger-made-out-of-co2-captured-from-the-air)

---

"@H2Europe

Three UK companies partnered up to build \#ZeroEmission trains thanks
to \#hydrogen"

[Link](https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1309462659373228033)

---

"@Jkylebass

The only person in the world that can bring @SenTomCotton and
@RashidaTlaib together is Secretary xi xinping. Concentration camps
are enough of deterrent for Wall Street to stop acting as Beijing's
bankers"

---

"@Jkylebass

One of china‚Äôs largest property developers is pleading to the
government for help as it faces a cash crunch. It‚Äôs bonds were just
halted in the chinese market"

---

Battery based solutions cannot be scaled.

Mainstream storage neeeds to be anchored on something else.

---

If everyone used batteries to store energy, here is the amt of lithium
needed.. Single person consumes 10 KW of energy, 240 Kwh / day, to
hold the energy required for a day, for everyone,


```python
consumption = 10 # kw, per person
pop = 7.8e9 # world population
daily_world_consumption = consumption*24*pop # kwh
kg_lit_needed = daily_world_consumption / 70.0 * 60.0
print ('needed,', int(kg_lit_needed / 1e9), 'million tons') # billion kg
```

```text
needed, 1604 million tons
```

Required lithium is over 90 TIMES of what is available in reserves.

---

There is >60kg of lithium carbonate in a 70kWh battery. The entire
world reserve for lithium is estimated to be ~17 million tonnes.

Simply put, there isn't enough of this shit to go around.

---

400 liters of water is used per kilo of lithium production. Major waste.

Water use is a problem bcz while lithium rich water is dug up, potable
water resources also shift.

---

CNBC: "Hydrogen-powered passenger plane completes maiden flight in world first"

[Link](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/09/25/hydrogen-powered-passenger-plane-completes-maiden-flight.html)

---

You are one with the tree... Trippy dude.

"[D]espite the incredible diversity of living things, animals, plants,
and the enormous variety and diversity of micro-organisms, we all have
characteristics that we share.  The same biochemical base, the same
DNA as genetic material, and we're all based on the same proteins.
Everything that's in bacteria, fungus, birds, whales or plants is the
same stuff"

[Link](https://youtu.be/ltzJbdKtKa4?t=1035)

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

---
