# Tweets - Week 24a

"@linseymarr

Excellent work by NBACC showing that aerosolized virus decays rapidly
in sunlight: 90% gone in 6 min in summer"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/linseymarr/status/1271282777451892738)

---

Bundestagsabgeordneter. Right on dude üëç

---

Excellent. Lead. Top-down, not bottom-up.

"The House Financial Services Committee (FSC) Task Force on Financial
Technology¬†will be evaluating¬†how FedAccounts and other digital tools
might help the federal government distribute stimulus payments to help
Americans suffering the economic fallout of¬†COVID-19. The virtual
hearing kicks off at¬†noon Eastern¬†(16:00 UTC)"

[Link](https://www.coindesk.com/watch-us-lawmakers-will-talk-digital-dollar-fedaccounts-in-thursday-hearing)

---

Blacksplaining!

Just kidding.. 

"@thEMANacho

Dear white people, For days you‚Äôve asked me what you can do to help. I‚Äôve finally found an answer"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/thEMANacho/status/1267609472589090816)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">How do u pass a law named after a person and dont arrest the people who killed her <a href="https://t.co/4MO7B2nvwU">https://t.co/4MO7B2nvwU</a></p>&mdash; thunderr (@thunderthundr) <a href="https://twitter.com/thunderthundr/status/1271234293319303176?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"You keep on learning and learning, and pretty soon you learn
something no one has learned before" -- Feynman

---

"Stop Training Police Like They‚Äôre Joining the Military"

[Link](https://www.defenseone.com/ideas/2020/06/stop-training-police-theyre-joining-military/166071/)

---

That's right. He probably saw foraging soc who had no need for it. You
get pagan religion if u r a peasant, worshipping bones, ancestors, and
fucking a sheep on the side. Then you need religion as politics
against the landowner class, mafia empires, against inequality. Wout
agro, no Rome, no girlfriend sheep, no need for religion. U already
are in Eden.

"Beyond the fact that they have no church, no religion, and are not
idolaters, what more can I say?‚Äù -- Vespucci on Native Americans

---

"If liberty means anything at all it means the right to tell people
what they do not want to hear." -- George Orwell

---

"DOE marking $30M toward solid oxide fuel cell & hydrogen production
R&D for power generation"

[Link](https://www.power-eng.com/2020/06/01/doe-marking-30m-toward-solid-oxide-fuel-cell-hydrogen-production-rd-for-power-generation/#gref)

---

Well that's the job isn't it? Random ass kicking

"@mdslock

NYPD lieutenant apologizes for kneeling alongside George Floyd
protesters 'The cop in me wants to kick my own ass.'"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">THAT&#39;S WHAT THEY&#39;RE APOLOGIZING FOR??<a href="https://t.co/cdAogmeK7N">https://t.co/cdAogmeK7N</a></p>&mdash; Jamaal Bowman (@JamaalBowmanNY) <a href="https://twitter.com/JamaalBowmanNY/status/1271111354263404544?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

From the man himself..

Later he had a kirkuffle w Putin, word is he is now in Ukraine seeking
payback.. 

[Link](https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/06/11/abolish-police-georgia-brutality-crime/)

---

*The Atlantic*: "As extraordinary as the decision by the Minneapolis
City Council was, the prospect of dismantling a police force‚Äîeven one
with tens of thousands of officers‚Äîisn‚Äôt novel. In the Republic of
Georgia, it has already been done. At the turn of the 21st century,
Georgia was one of the most corrupt places on Earth. Bribery in the
country, which lies in the Caucasus and shares a border with Russia,
was rampant, and its police force, which was both a beneficiary and an
enforcer of the system, was widely distrusted. So endemic was the
issue that when a new government came to power in 2004, it determined
that the country‚Äôs police force was too corrupt to be fixed. So its
leaders decided to abolish the force entirely, sacking about 30,000
officers. Then it began the three-year process of hiring a smaller,
better trained‚Äîand, crucially, corruption-free‚Äîpolice force to replace
it"

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2020/06/america-police-violence-germany-georgia-britain/612820)

---

"Australian PM on China tensions: country won't trade values in
response to 'coercion'"

---

"@xSt33zy

I fixed it"

[Link](https://twitter.com/xSt33zy/status/1270915996946137088)
 
---

To be precise it is survival, which trumps emotion, but I get what u
mean

"@leashless

The emotion which rules this world is fear of poverty. It is behind
all other masks"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr">!!! <a href="https://t.co/DGlUXN2v1L">https://t.co/DGlUXN2v1L</a></p>&mdash; Marc Lamont Hill (@marclamonthill) <a href="https://twitter.com/marclamonthill/status/1270692073017139201?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@jmartNYT

NEWS: [LeBron] @kingjames is finally taking the plunge into
politics. He and a handful of athletes and entertainers are starting a
new group to protect black voting rights"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Rabbit emerges from the ocean. The world has officially gone mad <a href="https://t.co/fAvDbvnyfh">pic.twitter.com/fAvDbvnyfh</a></p>&mdash; Science is Amazing (@AMAZlNGSCIENCE) <a href="https://twitter.com/AMAZlNGSCIENCE/status/1270995994491015173?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">A foot on the accelerator for fuel cell technology! Michelin and <a href="https://twitter.com/SymbioFCell?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@SymbioFCell</a> selected as preferential (and proud!) partners of the <a href="https://twitter.com/MissionH24?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@MissionH24</a> program for the development of fuel cell power in motor racing! <a href="https://t.co/yIsuxhPVpa">https://t.co/yIsuxhPVpa</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/GreenGTOfficiel?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@GreenGTOfficiel</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/Total?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Total</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/24hoursoflemans?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@24hoursoflemans</a> <a href="https://t.co/duXKpWmpo8">pic.twitter.com/duXKpWmpo8</a></p>&mdash; Michelin (@Michelin) <a href="https://twitter.com/Michelin/status/1270742596894298113?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Employees are not exactly "100% capitalist" just because they work in
a company. Various departments in a comp are not fully exposed to the
ups and downs of the "outside", the market. They have certain amt of
manpower, certain things they can do, they schedule and do them,
mostly in a routine. Yes, like a bureucracy (The B-word). IT, HR,
Finance, Sales, etc.. these are all bureucracies within companies.

---

"@HislopMD

Doctors are AMAZED at these 10 ways to BOOST your immune system:

The Polio vaccine

The Mumps vaccine

The Rubella vaccine

The Tetanus vaccine

The Measles vaccine

The Varicella vaccine

The Hepatitis vaccine

The Pertussis vaccine

The Diphtheria vaccine

The Pneumonia vaccine"

---

Word is Italians and TR are on one side, and everyone else on the
other in Libya... Descendants of Rome I and III? This probably won't
end well.

---

Deleted a quant repo I had published a while back. Was quite popular
too. Removed all its local backups, so now code will now survive
through its clones out there in hyperspace. 

---

"@ANativeAngeleno

This is a big deal. The game is on, and the Germans are betting
big. How will California compete in this energy transition?

'German cabinet approves hydrogen strategy, sets 14 TWh (Terrawatt
hour) target by 2030'"

---

Please dont sing lullabies 

---

Oh no

"@MarlowNYC

regret to inform you the celebs are at it again"

[Link](https://twitter.com/STOPFLEXIN/status/1271102991748259841)

---

"@EmmaVigeland

The Democratic D.C. mayor who painted "Black Lives Matter" on the
street won‚Äôt reconsider police funding.

The Democratic Party in a nutshell"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Europe keep powering up Hydrogen trains. Is the U.S next? <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemsission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemsission</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/renewableenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#renewableenergy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/wecantwait?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#wecantwait</a> <a href="https://t.co/JpEJkQ0PFo">https://t.co/JpEJkQ0PFo</a></p>&mdash; RyseHydrogen #wecantwait (@RyseHydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/RyseHydrogen/status/1270949760913100801?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

But a-how a-will I eat a-my a-gabagoool?

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EaNGbDvXYAYMBT9?format=jpg&name=360x360"/>

---

"Christopher Columbus statue beheaded in Boston, one in Richmond thrown in lake"

---

Want: >3000 Watt portable H2-fueled energy generator <20 kg in hardware.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Germany&#39;s highly anticipated <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> strategy is only available in German, but here is an extensive summary in English: <a href="https://t.co/DYf0H7HeYq">https://t.co/DYf0H7HeYq</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EnergyTransition?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EnergyTransition</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/renewables?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#renewables</a> <a href="https://t.co/CitakeCIFC">pic.twitter.com/CitakeCIFC</a></p>&mdash; Clean Energy Wire (@cleanenergywire) <a href="https://twitter.com/cleanenergywire/status/1270810465980100610?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"German government agrees on national hydrogen strategy"

[Link](https://www.ctvnews.ca/sci-tech/german-government-agrees-on-national-hydrogen-strategy-1.4977792)

---

Real change happens top-down, not bottom-up.

Top, bottom are a bit misleading words though.. Your dentist is not
your superior bcz he knows dentistry better than you. 

---

People revolt, react -- they are not policy experts, this is what they
do. Sure their anger can push leadership, but that's kind of late at
that point isn't it? Isn't the point of political leadership that
things do not get there in the first place? Revolt indicates failure
of politics.

---

"@garrygolden

Battery-only EV crowd is misreading why H2 Fuel Cells will win over
OEMs for heavy duty AND passenger. FC upsides;: cost per mass; less
risky/simpler supply chains; building out H2 refueling at scale is
cheaper than costs of grid balancing and extending wires"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">It&#39;s popular among some conservatives to point out that the Democratic Party used to defend slavery.<br><br>Well, the Republican Party used to oppose the Confederacy.</p>&mdash; Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) <a href="https://twitter.com/BCAppelbaum/status/1270793657998815232?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I love it when the units line up.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;This plane must be produced thanks to a very, very high dilution rate using hydrogen,&quot; he said. (French finance minister Bruno Le Maire)<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Airbus?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Airbus</a> <a href="https://t.co/I7YB3l8lhb">https://t.co/I7YB3l8lhb</a></p>&mdash; f-cell (@fcell_Germany) <a href="https://twitter.com/fcell_Germany/status/1270641436334194688?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Being "tough on crime". Sounded so great on paper and on TV back in
the day esp when u delivered it with a half open-mouth "IT person",
second-rate channeling of R. Redford, but did these "tough" policies
work? Were their potential side effects thought through?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">‚ÄúThe party told you to reject the evidence of your eyes and ears. It was their final, most essential command.‚Äù <a href="https://t.co/G9tbnKqi6M">https://t.co/G9tbnKqi6M</a></p>&mdash; Jimmy Dore (@jimmy_dore) <a href="https://twitter.com/jimmy_dore/status/1270744027365642241?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

----

That was a mistake

"Trump‚Äôs advisers convinced him not to address the nation in the
aftermath of George Floyd‚Äôs brutal murder"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Congratulations to <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolamotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolamotor</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolatrevor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolatrevor</a> for having built so much momentum with <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NKLA?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NKLA</a> in the span of only one week. Exciting times ahead for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/clean?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#clean</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemission</a> transport! <a href="https://t.co/7CGOb6hM4n">pic.twitter.com/7CGOb6hM4n</a></p>&mdash; Ziad Ayad (@ziadayad) <a href="https://twitter.com/ziadayad/status/1270295512160391171?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Someone get that floating Tesla while you are at it -- cuz u know, space junk

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I get to try to convince people and the government to clean up space junk, which i think is pretty cool <a href="https://t.co/w45LbOesKA">https://t.co/w45LbOesKA</a></p>&mdash; Luc Riesbeckü™ê‚òÑÔ∏èüõ∞‚ôªÔ∏è (@LucRiesbeck) <a href="https://twitter.com/LucRiesbeck/status/1270709511104409600?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Dear everyone who is uncomfortable right now: that‚Äôs the point.</p>&mdash; Sam Sanders (@samsanders) <a href="https://twitter.com/samsanders/status/1270417225028009984?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The UK&#39;s progress on green energy is mindblowing - from total dependency on coal 8 years ago, to now going many months without using any at all <a href="https://t.co/QcxAaaF0vQ">pic.twitter.com/QcxAaaF0vQ</a></p>&mdash; John Cope (@john_cope) <a href="https://twitter.com/john_cope/status/1270399620737359872?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Walls.. they keep coming up dont they? 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Sea walls are not a climate solution.</p>&mdash; Edgar McGregorüåéüå¥ (@edgarrmcgregor) <a href="https://twitter.com/edgarrmcgregor/status/1270400505794027520?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@tressiemcphd

The publishing industry is now about to give exactly two black people
a ridiculous advance to shut y'all up and it will be like Ben Carson
Jr and Condoleezza's creative niece"

---

How do you create a peer-to-peer Twitter? Or Facebook?

All u need is your own node. A company or gov can provide that.

User logs into his own node. Installs and runs apps on that
node. Those nodes communicate with other nodes to do their work. The
end.

A twitter app would simply publish ur latest tweets (via JSON, on your
own server), expose this info through an outside-callable
interface. The nodes of the "followers" will hit these APIs once in a
while to collect and present them in their app when the "follower
user" logs in to his node. Caching mechanisms, async messaging can be
easily implemented to speed this up.

This Open Twitter, Open Facebook can be open source based, u download
social net code from Github, to your node, and run it. But most users
wont deal with that, they will simply get their apps preinstalled on
the node, or choose apps through a simple Web interface (which in the
background would know which code to get from Github).

Censoring open, peer-to-peer apps will be harder. There is no single
company to intimidate.

---

"@gsiskind

Given rumors I‚Äôm hearing from pretty good sources, if you‚Äôre on an
H-1B, J-1 or L-1 visa and are outside the US, you should try and
reenter the US quickly"

---

"The city, home to a population about 17% of Minneapolis' size,
dissolved its police department in 2012 and replaced it with an
entirely new one after corruption rendered the existing agency
unfixable.

Before its police reforms, Camden was¬†routinely named one of the most
violent cities¬†in the US.

Now, seven years after the old department was booted, the city's crime
has dropped by close to half"

[Link](https://amp.cnn.com/cnn/2020/06/09/us/disband-police-camden-new-jersey-trnd/index.html)

---

Hoover... he was a body remover.

---

RATM was a great choice for [this movie](https://youtu.be/aTL4qIIxg8A).
The song playing a minute in is theirs.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The people angrily denouncing Rage Against the Machine for Tom Morello&#39;s leftist politics is one of the more hilarious things I have ever seen on the internet. WHAT MACHINE DID YOU THINK THEY HAVE BEEN RAGING AGAINST FOR DECADES? THE ICE CREAM MACHINE? THE ATM? LAWNMOWERS?</p>&mdash; Elisabeth Ryan JD MPH (@EJAllstonEsq) <a href="https://twitter.com/EJAllstonEsq/status/1270506460133363715?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Cutting police budgets may sound wonderful, but how will we pay for it?</p>&mdash; Savvy &amp; Realistic Democrat (@RealisticDemoc1) <a href="https://twitter.com/RealisticDemoc1/status/1268543647550750721?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 4, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Details on Germany&#39;s National Hydrogen Strategy <a href="https://t.co/BaNDCXvGQe">https://t.co/BaNDCXvGQe</a> Global policy shifts for fuel cells, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/powertogas?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#powertogas</a>, H2 is the biggest cleantech story of 2020. Impossible to ignore the momentum (some will). Only took 20 yrs to get here from .com era hype <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energytwitter?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energytwitter</a></p>&mdash; Garry Golden (@garrygolden) <a href="https://twitter.com/garrygolden/status/1270389407900729344?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@jacobinmag

Republicans are simply outraged at calls to defund the police. But for
years, they've had no problem defunding the agencies tasked with
enforcing laws against the world's most hardened, powerful criminals:
corporations"

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">this fella didn&#39;t support weed legalization until late 2018 explicitly because he didn&#39;t want to take away a common pretext police use to search people&#39;s cars <a href="https://t.co/wyYVJnOrcx">https://t.co/wyYVJnOrcx</a></p>&mdash; Natalie Shure (@nataliesurely) <a href="https://twitter.com/nataliesurely/status/1270331449170964485?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Sirota: "Republicans Defunded The Police We Need "

[Link](https://sirota.substack.com/p/republicans-defunded-the-police-we)

---

*Space Force* the TV show, thumbs down. What a waste of talent.

---

F..ing Rahm

---

I dont think Ive ever coded a Hello World with a new prog language

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="de" dir="ltr">Darth Vader was a Jedi. <a href="https://t.co/E0yJeaFK5W">https://t.co/E0yJeaFK5W</a></p>&mdash; Adam Rothman (@arothmanhistory) <a href="https://twitter.com/arothmanhistory/status/1269973752139440134?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Swedish power-to-fuel company Liquid Wind has successfully raised
over SEK 2.7m (‚Ç¨258,000) through crowdfunding to support the
development of carbon neutral fuel facilities and accelerate the
transition from fossil fuels"

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/liquid-wind-raises-sek-2m/)

---

"@JoSamps92

In another important step on the way to series production of fuel cell
systems, Daimler Truck has established Daimler Truck Fuel Cell,
bringing together all of the group‚Äôs fuel cell activities"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Every bartender I&#39;ve ever met is better at de-escalating conflict than the police.</p>&mdash; Lucie Steiner (@TheSteinbag) <a href="https://twitter.com/TheSteinbag/status/1270038220592615424?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

DJT net popularity -%13.4.

\#538

---

"@frankieboyle

I think Black Lives Matter is a great piece of political phrasemaking:
it hits on something so basic and undeniable, that nobody can disagree
or qualify it without announcing that they're a piece of shit"

---

"@Skylinex13

Marvel once used copyright law to stop a father putting an image of
Spider-Man on his son's tombstone.

'@CBR There's Not Much Marvel Can Do About Cops Using Punisher's Logo'"

---

"@dhnexon

I worry that the controversy over the @nytimes's handling of the
Cotton op-ed is overshadowing the fact that a sitting US Senator (and
rising star in the GOP) called for the American military to do war
crimes against US citizens based on outright disinformation"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Yorkshire Water has converted one of its standard trucks to use <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> dual fuel, marking a first in the UK water industry. <a href="https://t.co/JbylklFM0c">https://t.co/JbylklFM0c</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1269995752685817858?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Thyssenkrupp expands production capacities"

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/green-hydrogen-thyssenkrupp-expands-production-capacities-for-water-electrolysis-to-gigawatt-scale/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">EU consortium with <a href="https://twitter.com/ENGIEgroup?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@ENGIEgroup</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/Siemens_Energy?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Siemens_Energy</a> launches 12 MW H2 power-to-gas demo, to use turbines for power gen <a href="https://t.co/GvGXkdKkqk">https://t.co/GvGXkdKkqk</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energytwitter?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energytwitter</a>, are aeroderivatives the most likely option for 100% H2 combustion? This article seems to show that</p>&mdash; Jason Burwen üîãüîãüîã (@jburwen) <a href="https://twitter.com/jburwen/status/1269971431925985286?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I love how Mitt Romney reappears once every three months to outshine the entire Republican Party by doing the absolute least.</p>&mdash; Louis Virtel (@louisvirtel) <a href="https://twitter.com/louisvirtel/status/1269796438084472832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

[Here is](../../2020/07/migrations-anatolia.md)
an American on the Anatolian history. She emphasized many of the same point
that I had, hell she even used a Gellner reference.

---

Haha "providing new perspectives for this often misunderstood nation"
says TR English station...

I think they understand you *really well*. But you continue to
misunderstand their understanding... 

---

"@brittany_broski

Next up on the docket: free every black man unfairly rotting in jail
for any marijuana related charge when now the American economy
IMMENSELY benefits from its legalization/production/sale"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">If we lose summer but end policing I‚Äôll call it even.</p>&mdash; Jonathan (@jnthnwll) <a href="https://twitter.com/jnthnwll/status/1269766423343181824?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Another Brick In The Wall - Marilyn Manson \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/GVbRooo1n8k)

---

"@RyseHydrogen

Germany have unveiled the world's most ambitious green recovery of any
government, earmarking a budget of a cool 130bn Euros for
emission-lowering projects and technologies"

[Link](http://www.bloomberg.com/amp/news/articles/2020-06-05/germany-s-recovery-fund-gets-green-hue-with-its-focus-on-climate)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The <a href="https://twitter.com/CalEnergy?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@CalEnergy</a> has released an IC Irvine roadmap for the buildout and deployment of renewable <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> production plants in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/California?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#California</a> to support policy decisions and inform stakeholders. <a href="https://t.co/CR7g4JCjJQ">https://t.co/CR7g4JCjJQ</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1269935019075735553?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Very cool NJ Legislature.

(They are right by Exit 98 BTW wahaha)

"With an eye toward the economy of the future, the [NJ] Legislature is
one vote away from sending a bill to Gov. Phil Murphy‚Äôs creating a
Fuel Cell Task Force that would study ways to make the state
hospitable to hydrogen energy"

[Link](https://nj1015.com/task-force-planned-to-give-hydrogen-fuel-cells-a-boost-in-nj)

---

"@jjz1600

@BernieSanders denounces Israeli plans to 'illegally annex'
Palestinian lands, calls for an 'end to occupation', & endorses a
'shared future' for Israelis & Palestinians w/ human rights, equality,
& dignity for all"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">He changed the world, and was tortured for it <a href="https://t.co/UJ1yK6lPBD">https://t.co/UJ1yK6lPBD</a></p>&mdash; Molly Crabappleüáµüá∑ (@mollycrabapple) <a href="https://twitter.com/mollycrabapple/status/1270176982970642432?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


"@daliagebrial

Yeah sex is great but have you ever seen people dump the statue of a
slave owner in the very river where his slave ships used to dock"

---

Centrist are so insanely stupid. They cld rid themselves of those bros
they hate so much if they did a minimal thing.

---

Give ppl free health insurance and enough money so they dont have to
work in these shit jobs unless they have to.

---

There is a certain lack of quality associated with this
class. Teachers are condemning each child with their subpar skill,
poisoning their minds. Cops are actively killing them.

This is what you get when you try to "create work" for people who
should not even be employed (at least in that line of work).

---

Unions were pro Vietnam War back in the day.

---

Cops are working class. They have unions. Do we like them just because
they are "working class", "wage earners"?

---

The ease of payment coupled w ppls wish to reward wld generate massive
revenue at a scale not seen in our lifetimes. Patreon, Youtube ad rev
are not sufficient models. Destroy the gatekeepers.

---

Music, movies licencing, DRM same thing. Setup a Nano acct where I can
send u money for a song, movie that I like. Legislatively, in the
background ppl fight who owns the access to that acct, how to
distribute it even to stakeholders, I dont care. Consumer sees one
acct, for one work. Music, movies are freely downloadable.

This is how tech turns things upside down.

---

Old system sprinkled w some tech buzz. Wont work.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The hope that pervasive cameras by themselves would counterbalance the systemic racism that leads to the overpolicing of communities of color and the disproportionate use of force against black men was simply a techno-utopian fantasy. <a href="https://t.co/o4hxjFyCxw">https://t.co/o4hxjFyCxw</a></p>&mdash; Cathy O&#39;Neil (@mathbabedotorg) <a href="https://twitter.com/mathbabedotorg/status/1269677641713553408?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Responsibility lies with govs, at every level. Have to manage risk, at
the right stage, and not allow one crisis to morph into another. Now
enjoy your grand fuck up.

---

Avoiding crowds against covid or participating in them to protest
against a force set to kill you. You are fighting for survival either
way. And the cop thing is probably worse.

---

@nytimes

Breaking News: A veto-proof majority of the Minneapolis City Council pledged to dismantle the city‚Äôs Police Department, vowing to create a new public safety system 

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Black Lives Matter. <a href="https://t.co/JpXUFlxH2J">pic.twitter.com/JpXUFlxH2J</a></p>&mdash; Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) <a href="https://twitter.com/MittRomney/status/1269758561720156160?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Eric Garner¬†died from a chokehold in 2014. They were banned in NY in 1993"

[Link](https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2020/06/07/the-seventy-two-percent-solution-to-police-violence/)

---

<img width="240" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EZ4XFTtWkAEsfKZ?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

"International cooperation is needed to protect democratic values from
an increasingly assertive communist China, a new group made up of
lawmakers from eight countries and the EU parliament has said"

[Link](https://defconwarningsystem.com/2020/06/07/global-alliance-formed-to-counter-china-threat-amid-rising-tensions/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">As much grief as conservatives gave Obama for Solyndra or A123, Trump&#39;s hard bet on coal was a far, far worse misread of the market. <a href="https://t.co/KW0i3UfywW">https://t.co/KW0i3UfywW</a></p>&mdash; Tim Grejtak (@TheEnergyNerd) <a href="https://twitter.com/TheEnergyNerd/status/1262531527990280192?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 18, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">That path to competitiveness report had me gagged. We&#39;re all debating about it now at work. Take a look if you already haven&#39;t.</p>&mdash; Tim Grejtak (@TheEnergyNerd) <a href="https://twitter.com/TheEnergyNerd/status/1263685507743191042?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 22, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"[A]s the world adopted low-cost solar and low-cost batteries, we
learned more about their limitations.¬†Electricity is many things, but
it‚Äôs not a panacea.

One of the biggest challenges facing an all-electric economy is its
regionality. Power plants are rarely more than a few hundred miles
from the homes and businesses they power. As a result, the world is
divided into hundreds of regional electricity markets ‚Äì individual
electric fiefdoms with their own rules, regulations, and
resources. That regionality and those resources become the challenge
as the world moves to¬†wind¬†and solar electricity; not every
electricity market has access to the same quality of wind and
solar. Some places like Australia and the U.S. are so flooded with
cheap renewable energy that it‚Äôs wreaking havoc in their electricity
markets, while others like Northern Europe, Japan, and Korea have such
poor wind and solar resources they have no hope of ever powering their
economies completely by¬†renewable energy¬†alone.

We must find a renewable energy carrier"

[Link](https://www.luxresearchinc.com/blog/why-hydrogen-and-why-now)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hydrogen infrastructure for HD trucks on its ways:<br>Switzerland: Hydrospider delivers green H2 to the HRS [<a href="https://t.co/dFMCphgcph">https://t.co/dFMCphgcph</a>]<br>USA: Nikola orders electrolyzers for 5 HRSs [<a href="https://t.co/VASvWuHNmf">https://t.co/VASvWuHNmf</a>]<br>China: China H2 Energy and FC Monthly Report; April 2020: &gt;200 HRSs [ASIACHEM]</p>&mdash; Reiner (@H2FCEV) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2FCEV/status/1269697483019636737?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I dont think these ppl get any training at all. Just a random guy
with a gun. There are so many immob techniques... 

---

Just some lady FGS. Pohlice acting like came across al Qaida

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">There are ways to arrest someone without using a CHOKEHOLD!! What‚Äôs happening in this video from Bellevue, WA (near Seattle) continues to happen in countless cities across America. It‚Äôs tragic and needs to STOP. Police brutality is a choice, plain and simple. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/blacklivesmatter?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#blacklivesmatter</a> <a href="https://t.co/yjpVl1103j">pic.twitter.com/yjpVl1103j</a></p>&mdash; Benjamin Crump, Esq. (@AttorneyCrump) <a href="https://twitter.com/AttorneyCrump/status/1269641746180444161?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Hossenfelder, *Lost in Math*: "Cosmologist Paul Steinhardt calls the
multiverse idea 'baroque, unnatural, untestable and, in the end,
dangerous to science and society.' According to Paul Davies, it is
'simply naive deism dressed up in scientific language.' George Ellis
warns that 'proponents of the multiverse‚Ä¶ are implicitly redefining
what is meant by ‚Äòscience.‚Äô' 8 David Gross finds that 'it smells of
angels.' For Neil Turok, it‚Äôs 'the ultimate catastrophe.' And science
writer John Horgan complains that 'multiverse theories aren‚Äôt
theories‚Äîthey‚Äôre science fictions, theologies, works of the
imagination unconstrained by evidence.'"

---

"@RojavaNetwork

\#Idlib: Since the morning of Sunday, June 7, intense Russian
reconnaissance aircraft were reported in the sky south of Idlib, in
conjunction with the arrival of huge SAA military force near the
confrontation lines. Activists in Idlib say Syria army prepare a
military operation"

---

"The base-case .. scenario indicates an annual hydrogen market worth
over $1 trillion by 2050, potentially saving 5 gigatonnes in
CO2¬†emissions a year ‚Äì a massive reduction of 15% a year from current
emission levels. Barclays' base case suggests the hydrogen market is
set to grow 8-fold by 2050"

[Link](https://www.investmentbank.barclays.com/our-insights/the-hydrogen-economy-fuelling-the-fight-against-climate-change.html?icid=hydrogen_LI)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Edward Colston statue pulled down by BLM protesters in Bristol. Colston was a 17th century slave trader who has numerous landmarks named after him in Bristol. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BlackLivesMattters?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#BlackLivesMattters</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/blmbristol?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#blmbristol</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ukprotests?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ukprotests</a> <a href="https://t.co/JEwk3qKJx2">pic.twitter.com/JEwk3qKJx2</a></p>&mdash; Jack Grey (@_jackgrey) <a href="https://twitter.com/_jackgrey/status/1269625428400132096?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Pick a knee. The one that knelt on a neck or the one that knelt to try to prevent it.</p>&mdash; S.E. Cupp (@secupp) <a href="https://twitter.com/secupp/status/1269493689321226241?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

@Justin_Bons

Core has released a new upgrade for BTC, actions speak louder then
words, in this case code: There is not even a single improvement to
scaling It also removes BIP70, the most widely used payment protocol,
which payment processors such as @BitPay rely on

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The NFL should formally apologize to Colin Kaepernick.</p>&mdash; Clint Smith (@ClintSmithIII) <a href="https://twitter.com/ClintSmithIII/status/1269043561078624256?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 5, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@Rouell3

Not a single cop at the North East LA protest today. Couple thousand
of us. Entirely peaceful. Wonder what did the trick"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">MINNEAPOLIS: Several MPD police cruisers drive by peaceful demonstrators and pepper spray them from moving vehicles for no reason. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/BLUEFALL?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#BLUEFALL</a><a href="https://t.co/aQQMbyYD17">pic.twitter.com/aQQMbyYD17</a></p>&mdash; Chad Loder (@chadloder) <a href="https://twitter.com/chadloder/status/1268955152750264320?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 5, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;As the Commander of Pacific Air Forces, a senior leader in our Air Force, and an African-American, many of you may be wondering what I‚Äôm thinking about the current events surrounding the tragic death of George Floyd. Here‚Äôs what I‚Äôm thinking about...&quot; - Gen. CQ Brown, Jr. <a href="https://t.co/I2sf1067L6">pic.twitter.com/I2sf1067L6</a></p>&mdash; PACAF (@PACAF) <a href="https://twitter.com/PACAF/status/1268794618461618177?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 5, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Barclays Investment Bank says <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> sector will be worth $1 trillion by 2050 <a href="https://t.co/9ujLpTi9U0">https://t.co/9ujLpTi9U0</a></p>&mdash; Marchmaine #cleantechexpert (@biogasconsult) <a href="https://twitter.com/biogasconsult/status/1269252048488366081?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 6, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@vexedinthecity

Y'all notice how all of your 'libertarian' friends on social media
ain't been saying shit? Like, they should be anti-cop because
freedom. But they just can't bring themselves to acknowledge that
black lives matter because being a libertarian is just cool ranch
white supremacy"

---

"Jon Hunt, Toyota‚Äôs head of commercialisation of FCEV cars, told Auto
Express that manufacturing a lithium-ion battery for an electric car
is a 'very energy-intensive' process.

'As an example ... in order to produce [a 100kWh battery] battery, it
will take around 20 tonnes of CO2,' he said. 'A typical battery lasts
for 150,000 miles, so that equates to around 83g/km of CO2'"

[Link](https://jalopnik.com/toyota-still-thinks-hydrogen-fuel-cells-are-the-future-1843928962/amp?__twitter_impression=true)

---

Are they? Or are they essential for luxurious services to continue
during a pandemic?

"We've seen delivery people are essential"

---

Yes.  With organized farming ppl worked for themselves, farmed their
own land, work depended on seasons, self-employment. Industrial age,
had "wage earners", who worked on atomized, small pieces of big
assignments, cogs in a machine, almost everyone worked for someone
else. We'll see what follows next in a post-industrial society.

(Postindustrial doesn't mean there is no industrial production, just
like in a post-agro world there is still agriculture production)

"Should work change depending on tech?"

---

So many junk buzzwords in one sentence. The sol does nor lie in these
single-layer paint job tech solutions. Tech, if used, must be the
basis something drastically new, or it will not cause big
change. Third Wave society will not be Second Wave "modern" society
with some tech sprinkled on top.

"The Trouble With Trusting AI to Interpret Police Body-Cam Video"

---

Way to go Bawston. Wanna paak the caah? Go straight to Newburry St.

"In Boston‚Äôs toniest neighborhood, large military presence stands
guard - The Boston Globe"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When I watch the news and they talk about ‚Äúbad actors‚Äù, I‚Äôm always afraid they‚Äôre talking about me.</p>&mdash; Brent Spiner (@BrentSpiner) <a href="https://twitter.com/BrentSpiner/status/1269084487977013248?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 6, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Is he doing a BLM thing or kneeling in front of pagan Gods of money

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EZxvfoTWkAEdUqu?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">now, wait a fucking minute y&#39;all üíÄüíÄüíÄ <a href="https://t.co/GP1aU33P5Y">pic.twitter.com/GP1aU33P5Y</a></p>&mdash; Z‚ú® (@crueloverz) <a href="https://twitter.com/crueloverz/status/1268916526024802308?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 5, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@bgutierrez

Agile Development is like Communism: So far everyone's been doing it
wrong, but we're REALLY going to get it right this time"

---

"@AliVelshi

BREAKING: Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance will decline to
prosecute people charged with unlawful assembly and disorderly conduct
cases tied to protesting. This means the non-violent arrests for
breaking curfew will not be prosecuted"

---

"@briantylercohen

And there it is. New polling out of TEXAS (@ppppolls) Biden: 48% Trump: 48%"

---

Freud's methods are riddled with mistakes. Go with Jungian
psychology. He was the better thinker, his followers are still
producing good work; Myers-Briggs is an extension to Jung. So is
Clotaire Rapaile's culture code approach.

---

"@CNBCnow

BREAKING: States are leaning toward a push to break up Google‚Äôs ad
tech business"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The chemical symbol for Oxygen is &#39;O&#39;.</p>&mdash; Underwhelming Facts (@QuiteWhelming) <a href="https://twitter.com/QuiteWhelming/status/1268170831336701953?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 3, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">There are enough bones in a human body to make a skeleton.</p>&mdash; Underwhelming Facts (@QuiteWhelming) <a href="https://twitter.com/QuiteWhelming/status/1268618527419666434?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 4, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Resnick u are slippin ma man.. There was no need to get into that
v_avg biness.. usual x, v, a deriv wld have been just fine.

---

Interesting. Deeper structure concept always piques my interest.

Some say underly struct is a graph.. Fluids, equally awesome.

"What if the fluid analogy is more than an analogy? Maybe space-time
really behaves like a fluid; maybe it¬†is¬†a fluid.'"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/IAI_TV/status/1268943200200339458)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In response to pro-Israel groups that accuse BDS of &quot;singling out Israel,&quot; <a href="https://twitter.com/jjz1600?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@jjz1600</a> of <a href="https://twitter.com/AAIUSA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AAIUSA</a> says &quot;you&#39;re the ones singling out Israel&quot; by insisting it be the only country treated as if it&#39;s above the law &amp; which cannot be held accountable. Watch live:<a href="https://t.co/tbh6PvrYAR">https://t.co/tbh6PvrYAR</a></p>&mdash; Omar Baddar (@OmarBaddar) <a href="https://twitter.com/OmarBaddar/status/1268560140896256000?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 4, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


Renaissance science is deeply tied with the age of exploration.

Accurate clocks were built to geolocate.

First modern sci grant was for a better clock in UK.

Guess who set at the commitee for that research -- Issac F..ing Newton.

---

DOE is looking for energy storage skillz

[Link](https://www.zintellect.com/Opportunity/Details/DOE-EERE-STP-HFTO-2020-1801)

---

"Susskind urged me to study string theory, too, but I‚Äôm not taking that
advice. First of all, string theory looks¬†more like a dead end now
than ever. Moreover, it would take far too long to learn‚Äîat least six
years of graduate-level study, one of my quantum advisers
estimated--and my old brain would probably never grasp it.¬†Edward
Witten, whom some say is the smartest physicist since Newton, told me
that when he read early papers on string theory in the 1970s, he found
them ‚Äúopaque.‚Äù (String theory‚Äôs hardness could explain its
persistence. Those who master it can‚Äôt admit they have wasted their
time on a dead end.)"

[Link](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/cross-check/my-quantum-experiment/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">WE ARE OPERATIONAL in South Korea after a lot of Corona challenges. Great news and many thanks to the fantastic team that has contributed to this achievementüëäüèºüëäüèºüéâüçæüòä <a href="https://twitter.com/nelhydrogen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nelhydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/AvPZGwzPov">https://t.co/AvPZGwzPov</a></p>&mdash; Jon Andre L√∏kke (@jonandrelokke) <a href="https://twitter.com/jonandrelokke/status/1268928707198103554?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 5, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Work done equals force times displacement = which means exactly
nothing. Start w energy transfer, derive, then reach that statement. 

---

"@Jkylebass

It‚Äôs finally time. The playing field is about to be leveled..and
China‚Äôs chicanery will be impaired. Memorandum on Protecting United
States Investors from Significant Risks from Chinese Companies | The
White House"

---

60% of Jordan is of Palestenian descent? 

---

Aaaauuuuwwww got his ass whooped 

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/damonayoung/status/1268766635759857665)

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

