# Week 53

Happy new year muthafukkas

---

Argentina Legalizes Abortion, a Milestone in a Conservative Region

---

Hey Michael Irby from The Unit. Good actor.

\#TheExpanse

---

Expanse is at its best when it is showing off all that cool
tech... The horizontal / vertical elevator was awesome. It goes
reeally fast than all of a sudden goes vertical? Sweet.

---

My alma-mater prided itself for being an engineering school with a
strong humanity bent. You had to take lots of classes from humanities,
which all students playfully called Hum. Hummmm... which bothered some
Hum teachers, one used to tease us for the use of the word. "Are you
happy with your Hummmm?".

Well anyway, one of my Hum classes was changes tech causes on
society. The Internet had not made it to the textbooks yet, but the
so-called client-server IT had been in use for a while, like the
"groupware" Lotus Notes, and they could analyze some of
that. Groupware lets you schedule meetings, etc obviously. You could
see everyone's schedule, and schedule meeting accordingly. I'll never
forget one case where an exec would preemptively block out almost all
spots in his calendar, bcz he didnt want people to schedule meetings
with him, willy nilly.

You see, the introduction of tech in this picture didnt really change
anything. People fought it, and it did not create "a new way of
working" either... This was a good lesson. I guess I was already on
the way of writing this dinky stuff I write today.. 3W tech can
disturb, and may not alter "everything" wout correct social
infrastructure.

---

E Blunt could pull off Black Widow though..

---

Wut? They almost had the the guy from the Tom Clancy show playing C
America? They made a good choice.. CA needs to be a little
square. Evans is better square. 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Someone who drives down my road keeps throwing empty ‚ÄúTwisted Tea‚Äù cans out their window so I took a photo of one to send to one of my neighbors and twenty minutes later I got an ad for ‚ÄúTwisted Tea‚Äù and if you are reading this you will too. <a href="https://t.co/miPWdJd4Nw">pic.twitter.com/miPWdJd4Nw</a></p>&mdash; Noah (@noahkalina) <a href="https://twitter.com/noahkalina/status/1343996625086279681?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 29, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Teeka Tiwari, the "legendary investor", bought one long-ass ad time to
sell me blockchain. A for effort. 

---

The Speaker of the House in front of a chatroom doesnt get you "the
future". Tech wout the correct backdrop may not always cause advance.

---

<iframe width="200" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FGnnDeeYYSA?start=210&end=352" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

A long-winded way of describing a meme

---

ü§£ ü§£ ü§£ 

"[T]he subject matter of his artistry often revolving around
relationships have had widespread impact *on social media through
photo captions commonly used to reference emotions or personal
situations* (italics mine)"

[Link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drake_(musician))

---

Another Cal recall in the works? Dam.

Lota ppl are upset over there..

"@JeremyBWhite

@GavinNewsom recall gets a $500,000 infusion from an Irvine-based
consulting firm...and 50K from a Sequioa Capital partner"

---

Riz Ortolani - I Travestiti \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/BIfnO38ml-8)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">C-H2 Ship Specifications Completed &amp; U.S. Provisional Patent Filed-Global Energy Ventures Ltd provides update on the development of a new compressed <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> ship (C-H2 Ship) to transport the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zerocarbon?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zerocarbon</a> fuel of the future-<a href="https://t.co/edkTZSuAau">https://t.co/edkTZSuAau</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1343546471317172225?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 28, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@cyantist

I‚Äôm not giving up on SF yet, but something has to be done and soon
about local politics here. This city is eating itself"

---

RB is resembling Jesus more and more every day

---

ü§£ ü§£

<iframe width="200" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9cvIpbQ2CkU?start=330&end=425" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"@DaveKeating

Unfortunately UK media is giving citizens & businesses the impression
that disruption will be averted because of Boris's Brexit Deal.

They are in for a rude awakening on Friday. The lorry back-up, for
instance, will still happen because of customs checks"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Given my current sleep schedule I think it would be easiest to simply move to Europe</p>&mdash; Brandon Barker ‚ú® (@AstroBarker) <a href="https://twitter.com/AstroBarker/status/1343485704651870208?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 28, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"The cost of X fuel, Y fuel" is not a good way to argue for or against
any energy solution. If something is feasible engineering-wise, you
can *make* it affordable. Is oil cheap to produce? Its companies
received trillions in subsidies in the past that made this fuel
possible. Tech is subsidized, you are paying locals, you are paying to
CIA to stir shit up in the region so u can get oil.... All bcz powers
that be wanted this fuel be possible, and it became
possible. Obviously engineering, chemical-wise it had certain
properties that made it optimal. That is the starting point.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">My new bluetooth coffee mug comes with a Privacy Policy and wants to know my Precise Location and my Mobile Ad ID. I said no thank you to both üòÇ (but thx for keeping my coffee warm!) üéÖüèª ‚òïÔ∏è <a href="https://t.co/MvH2q4yZhT">pic.twitter.com/MvH2q4yZhT</a></p>&mdash; Dennis Crowley üá∫üá∏ (@dens) <a href="https://twitter.com/dens/status/1342534440724156418?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 25, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"The middle" is something that *emerges* out of you being where you
are, and the other guy being where he is. You dont "try" to be the
middle.

If u preemptively chase the middle it will run away, go further to
right. You'll be like that dog chasing its own tail, never reaching
it.

But the cobmunchers, in Wash, at MSM already know this well, dont
they? That's why they keep asking for it knowing it will push the
entire spectrum towards the right.


"We should meet the other guy in the middle"

---

You could just take Mirai's fuel-cell and use it for an airplane? Good to know.

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NlCNzqGQM1c?start=180&end=272" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

A summary of developments in math, CS; 2020 was a great year for these
researchers.

[Link](https://www.quantamagazine.org/quantas-year-in-math-and-computer-science-2020-20201223/)

---

"[R]esearchers have designed and synthesized an effective material for
speeding up one of the  limiting steps in extracting hydrogen from
alcohols. The material, a catalyst, is made from tiny clusters of
nickel metal anchored on a 2D substrate. The team led by researchers
at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's (Berkeley Lab) Molecular
Foundry found that the catalyst could cleanly and efficiently
accelerate the reaction that removes hydrogen atoms from a liquid
chemical carrier. The material is robust and made from earth-abundant
metals rather than existing options made from precious metals, and
will help make hydrogen a viable energy source for a wide range of
applications"

[Link](https://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2020-12/dbnl-sti122120.php)

---

I have a feeling the Jews from America who "returned" have a lot to do
with that settlement activity bcz as Americans they are playing
Cowboys and Indians with the locals (some of whose ancestors were
probably true ancient Jews from the region) and have a frontier
mentality. They had their PM in Netan who speaka Americanese (better
than his Hebrew apparently)

---

I want Israel to exist of course.. the arrivees were mostly European
and they have lots to give to the region, in terms of science, work
habits etc.

---

My favorite part from Pappe is [this](2020/06/10-myths-israel.md):

>The myth insists that the Jews who arrived in 1882 were the
>descendants of the Jews expelled by the Romans around 70 CE. The
>counterargument questions this genealogical connection. Quite a hefty
>scholarly effort has shown that the Jews of Roman Palestine remained
>on the land and were first converted to Christianity and then to
>Islam

So the Jews who "came back" to Israel are not the people "who left"?

And actually there was no leaving? Bloody hell.. But then who the hell
are all these Jews who are "coming back" to Israel? They must be like
Madonna, enthused by Kaballah or whatever (I so wanna try that) and
their children's children are these Jews who are "returning".

Some even converted for tactical reasons, Asimov:

>About 600 C.E., the Khazars, lived in what is now southern
>Russia. They established an empire that reached its peak about 750
>C.E., [and] about that time, the Khazars adopted Judaism as the stat
>religion, [probably] to keep from falling under the influence of
>either the Byzantine Christians or the Arab Moslems

ROFL. Where is the culture?  Where is "heritage"? You convert to
*tactical* reasons? And some of the descendants of these people come
to the region and push Palestenians off their land? Dam.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;The drama surrounding the ‚ÄúTesla of Trucking‚Äù should end in 2021, as Nikola rolls out actual working trucks and other evidence its technology is workable, according to J.P. Morgan.&quot;<br><br>‚ÄúWe look for a steady flow of updates for the Tre in 2021.&quot;<a href="https://t.co/tc1C5NJTdZ">https://t.co/tc1C5NJTdZ</a></p>&mdash; Bj√∏rn Eng (@H2Bjorn) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Bjorn/status/1343849930482479109?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 29, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Yoshinori Sunahara - Hypnotize \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/MzCi5kr4Aak)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">As my time in Dresden comes to an end, I will take this one bit of German wisdom with me to Lausanne:<br><br>Alles hat ein ende, nur die Wurst hat zwei.</p>&mdash; Hann Ng (@HannNg3) <a href="https://twitter.com/HannNg3/status/1342853384643239947?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 26, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Here's a simple way that can happen..  Let's say u dont want to wait
for 1, 2, or 8 hrs to charge. Then u say "we'll just have a swap
mechanism, u give your empty one, get a charged one". Right there, you
just doubled the amount of lithium needed bcz on top of the lithium
needed for cars, now u need just as much lithium for bats that are
waiting, offline to be picked up in case of a swap.

"But doubling the usage of lithium for transport does not seem likely,
we can make do with what we have"

---

The science

[Link](https://youtu.be/LS9tbtrKWNE?t=1888)

---

One of those canisters could be charged in 10 minutes BTW. Most
e-bikes on the market I see require hours of recharging with meager
range. 

---

Lavo Bike?

Lavo BBQ?

Swell

[Link](https://youtu.be/LS9tbtrKWNE?t=4643)

---

Energy reqs of some household items

* Single burner electric stove: 1500 Watts
* TV: 80-400 Watts
* Fridge: 100-250 watts

---

Lavo storage unit has;

* 40 kWh capacity
* Output Voltage Range: 45 ‚Äì 53 V DC
* 30 yrs lifespan (10 times more than the equivalent battery tech)
* Main element used hydrogen hydride is non-toxic, fully recyclable

---

Great H2 storage company [LAVO](https://lavo.com.au) whose tech turns
renewable fuel into a long-term storage mechanism.

<img width="340" src="https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1_estbcX6JjX12n3KzA9Df0snA5cB4piE"/>

---

Death came a knocking- Ruthie Foster \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/fHIiWQLhfp4)

---

[FRED graph](2019/05/stats.md#t3mff), 3-month treasury and FEDFUNDS
differential.

When the difference is out of whack, it can be a signal things are
about to go kaboom.

---

Since IR is a short term rate, it would be logical to assume the
instrument that is effected by IR the most can be a predictor of
it. This is the 3-month treasury bill, something the market constantly
votes on with their money. The paper below suggests 3-month treasury
price has some predictive value. 

"This paper shows that the spread between the 3-month Treasury bill and
the federal funds rate has significant predictive power for the future
change in the federal funds rate during the volatile nonborrowed
reserves operating regime, but it has less and no predictive power
during the borrowed reserves regime and the federal funds targeting
regime, respectively. These findings suggest that Treasury bill rates
forecast future federal funds rates most accurately when the Federal
Reserve follows a well-defined rule that does not smooth the impact of
shocks on the federal funds rate"

[Link](http://dept.ku.edu/~empirics/Courses/Econ918/Simon-90.pdf)

---

Runoff elections and race

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XIaF5vfvrEs?start=157&end=229" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

But guess what, BJ agreed to it.

>NI will stay in the EU single market for goods and will continue to
>enforce EU customs rules at its ports. This will .. create a new 'sea
>border' with the rest of the UK

FREEEEDOM!

---

"[N]o UK prime minster could ever agree to it," Theresa May had said
[about an earlier text the commission have published] "which would, if
implemented, undermine the UK common market and threaten the
constitutional integrity of the UK by creating a customs and reg
border down the Irish Sea".

---

"@ASYNSIS

5 times the storage capacity, 1/10th the cost of Lithium batteries.
If this #LAVO Hydrogen energy breakthrough flies, the #GreenNewDeal
\#MetaLoop city de-carbonisation revolution just got a whole lot more
real"

[Link](https://twitter.com/ASYNSIS/status/1278853825370025984)

---

*Supernatural* ended.. After 15 years! Great show... I bet it was
 inspired by *Constantine* when it first started.

---

Fast, fast... Lots o' particles simulated through the GPU..

---
