# Week 33

"@mariskreizman

A thing to note about the state of healthcare in this country: when I
overpay for insulin in order to live, my insurance mandates that I get
it by mail service rather than at a pharmacy"

---

"@KenDilanianNBC

Trump: 'A lot of people' think Edward Snowden 'not being treated
fairly' via @nypost"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In the same week as Hyperion unveiled its hydrogen-electric supercar, students at the <a href="https://twitter.com/tudelft?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@tudelft</a> have presented their newest <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> racing car, Forze IX.<a href="https://t.co/YNfqcikbV9">https://t.co/YNfqcikbV9</a></p>&mdash; Molly Burgess (@molly_burgess97) <a href="https://twitter.com/molly_burgess97/status/1294186312598204416?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Kelager: "The fluid is constrained to stay with the grid. It simply
cannot exist outside the grid domain, and thus makes it a difficult
problem to let the fluid flow naturally, e.g. when a fluid container
fractures"

---

Kelager: "The Navier-Stokes equations .. formulate the motion of an
Eulerian fluid"

---

.. and the Eulerian vpoint means that a person "likes to watch"? 😶

---

Lagrangian viewpoint -- does that make a person French minded?

---

SPH (for fluid simulation) uses the Lagrangian viewpoint which
simulates / follows the physics of particles. I guess this viewpoint
comes more natural to me bcz of software background; thinking of
particles that are simulated make more sense than "the Eularian
viewpoint", thinking a predefined grid that doens't change and u watch
the fluid passing through. In either case number of particles / grid
size defines the precision of the calculation, but IMO Lagrangian
viewpoint can get better precision, especially in edge cases.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">.<a href="https://twitter.com/hyperionmotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@hyperionmotor</a> has unveiled a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a>-powered supercar they hope it will change the way people view <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> tech. The XP-1 will be able to drive for up to 1,000 miles on one tank and it can go from 0 to 60 miles per hour in a little over 2 seconds<a href="https://t.co/L66KICVJcG">https://t.co/L66KICVJcG</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Europe (@H2Europe) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1294203081849176065?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

See Toffler's *Future Shock*

---

Constructing societies that are against human nature (meaning forager)
can cause many ills. I bet that is one reason for the *hikikomori* in
Japan, the reclusive adolescents who dont leave home. This cld be a
way to subconciously reduce excessive stimuli which modern life
generates in excess, especially in cities. We are built for a certain
level of stimuli anything over that causes problems. In the West ppl
might not become recluse but cld act oddly in different ways, maybe
crime or other things.

---

"@DSP_fact

'One can Fourier transform anything—often meaningfully.' -- John Tukey"

---

Why are these grades, exams such a big deal at national level in UK?
Sounds like some nanny level biz, example of over-centralization?

---

If you want to live underground like some mole, or on permanently
sealed off buildings, you can get that experience on the Moon easily.

"But we get the experience of living in encampents"

---

Yes but the launch window is every 2 years. You dont go to Mars any
f-ing time you please, the most efficient time is during the
window. Why did all these recent launches cram into that one period? This is why.

The launch window for Jupiter comes every year.

"But Mars is much closer than other planets, satellites"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">More exciting news of oceans in the solar system beyond Earth. Water supports complex organic chemistry, but does that chemistry extend as far as life? We’ll have to go to find out ! <a href="https://t.co/KPrybF4tAk">https://t.co/KPrybF4tAk</a></p>&mdash; Brian Cox (@ProfBrianCox) <a href="https://twitter.com/ProfBrianCox/status/1293808618689769473?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Tejs drove 2,700 km in 4 countries by hydrogen without problems &amp; without CO2 emissions. Thanks for sharing <a href="https://t.co/wGGR37xXBD">https://t.co/wGGR37xXBD</a></p>&mdash; Bart Biebuyck 🇪🇺 (@bartbiebuyck) <a href="https://twitter.com/bartbiebuyck/status/1293894474242949120?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@AlexBMorse

My opponent is Corporate America's Favorite Congressman. 

I'm running for Congress because we should put people before profits
and guarantee healthcare as a human right.

Join our fight: [https://bit.ly/2FcjzU0](https://bit.ly/2FcjzU0)"

[Link](https://twitter.com/AlexBMorse/status/1293622387121037313)

---

Jira sucks

"@iLemming

Workforce churn/attrition rates in a given company are proportional to
the number of tickets in Jira. Software Developers stay longer in a
company that doesn't use Jira. This isn't even a theory, we all know
that"

---

"U.S. Congress has frozen weapons sales to Turkey for two years"

---

Wrote an article on mathematical models 15+ years ago. The write-up
went through gazillion file formats, finally became TeX converted
markdown, published on Github Pages. Now I see ppl finding it online,
boy did it take long to become that.

---

They do look kinda weird

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Many people have been using quarantine as a time to perfect their bread or coffee making skills, but I personally have taken this as an opportunity to make increasingly unsettling eggs <a href="https://t.co/7mefhS5ffB">pic.twitter.com/7mefhS5ffB</a></p>&mdash; Anna Hughes (@AnnaGHughes) <a href="https://twitter.com/AnnaGHughes/status/1294270430518312966?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Founded in 2015, <a href="https://twitter.com/nikolamotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NikolaMotor</a> has rapidly become one of the most talked about vehicle manufacturers... but how did the market leader get to where it is today? Discover the story of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Nikola?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Nikola</a> in this 3-part series by <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a>’s <a href="https://twitter.com/molly_burgess97?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@molly_burgess97</a>.<a href="https://t.co/oOL2kyIlqL">https://t.co/oOL2kyIlqL</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1293557398532239360?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"[W]hat isn't discussed is how Mr. 'Content Is King' got his 'content'
...  [Redstone] bested business rivals throughout his long career as
he engineered deals for Viacom, Paramount and CBS and displayed an
unwavering passion to win. ... Viacom Networks (MTV, BET, Comedy
Central, CMT), the engine that drove Redstone's media empire was
almost entirely built on 'reality', 'live' and 'free' content. Which
is to say, Redstone's genius was finding a way to pipe content made
and paid for by other people (music labels, comedy clubs) on to
cable. And to fill the gap with non-union, unprotected 'perma-lance'
innovation in-house. Reality and music television was just
union-busting. Plain and simple. ... Reality television can seem
exciting and glamorous. Working on reality television, much less
so. As the following stories from "professionally abused" insiders
show, reality TV workers will continue... 'My Super Sweet 16'? A PA
came up with that. 'Jersey Shore'? Just a rip-off of a True Life
pitched by an AP. There was no IP ownership. No health-care. And
Redstone's bet was freelance 20 year olds wouldn't have the stones to
organize or sue"

[Link](https://twitter.com/gideonyago/status/1293567900096200710)

---

"@h2_view

The New South Wales Government in #Australia has today approved
@JemenaLtd’s $15m Western Sydney Green Gas (WSGG) Project"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HanwhaEnergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HanwhaEnergy</a> has completed its $212m <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> power plant, located at the Daesan Industrial Complex in Seosan, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SouthKorea?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#SouthKorea</a>.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a><a href="https://t.co/tc78UJ8aNF">https://t.co/tc78UJ8aNF</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1293577551072419845?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"But Ginsburg, as Slate’s Mark Joseph Stern has noted, is not the most
liberal Supreme Court justice; that would be the Obama appointee Sonia
Sotomayor. In recent years Ginsburg has voted with the majority in
favor of the fossil-fuel industry and against criminal defendants and
asylum seekers"

[Link](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/12/magazine/the-fandom-around-rbg-is-out-of-step-with-reality.html#click=https://t.co/GoJqnEVMIy)


---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Congratulations to <a href="https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@KamalaHarris</a>, who will make history as our next Vice President. She understands what it takes to stand up for working people, fight for health care for all, and take down the most corrupt administration in history. Let’s get to work and win.</p>&mdash; Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) <a href="https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1293290750982139905?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Democrats from all corners of the party appeared largely united behind
Joe Biden’s selection of the California senator Kamala Harris as his
running mate on Tuesday ... praise also came from high-profile
progressive leaders on Tuesday, including two of Biden’s other former
rivals, the senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren"

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/aug/11/kamala-harris-democrats-reaction-obama-sanders-warren)

---

"[Trump] releases attack ad labelling Biden 'racist' as it emerges
Donald and Ivanka donated to Kamala Harris"

---

Wait.. I thought expertise had gone by the wayside, it's like
technocratic or something.. 

"Brian Lee Hitchens, a Florida taxi driver ... who prayed in the
morning before going shopping or carrying passengers without a mask,
was sure that nothing would happen to him and his asthma-sick
wife. God would take care of him. And possibly the entire corona hype
is mere hysteria anyway, as could be read on the Internet, and the
virus is no more dangerous than ordinary flu. Then he fell ill
himself, then his wife, who struggled for weeks to survive. While
still in the hospital, Brian Lee Hitchens wrote on Facebook about his
change of heart 'The virus is not a fake, the pandemic is real. It is
important to heed the advice of experts' [he wrote]"

[Link](https://www.nzz.ch/feuilleton/die-polemisierende-kulturkritik-leidet-unter-wirklichkeitsverlust-ld.1570515)

---

"@emilyfmayer

Just a recap for the people in the back: @DemMaj4Israel and other Israel hawks spent

* $3 million against @JamaalBowmanNY 

* Around $7 million against @IlhanMN'

---

"We are very pleased to announce that we are now ISO9001:2015 certified
at both our Manufacturing Facility and Green Hydrogen Farm! 🤩"

[Link](https://twitter.com/NanoSUNH2/status/1293519624076767235)

---

"@levie

My back of the envelope math says that people are more excited by
Kamala Harris than they were Tim Kaine"

---

Robert Bridson, Matthias Müller-Fischer; excellent write-up on fluid dynamics.

---

Finally a series on *Foundation*? 😊 Jared Harris as Seldon. I can see
it, good choice.

[Link](https://youtu.be/FZd3xUDudy8)

---

Networks are probably pleased, Kamala can dish it out, do some drama.

---

In general Californians are good to have in any cabinet. There is some
culture around green energy in the state, as they've been
experimenting with a few technologies before everyone else.

---

<img width="340" src="https://media2.giphy.com/media/Xjo8pbrphfVuw/200.gif"/>

<img width="340" src="https://media2.giphy.com/media/Y4WKWgiKhq7AIQYuxa/giphy.gif"/>

---

😶

"Fact: While it's generally thought of as a vegetable, eggplant is actually a fruit"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I have the great honor to announce that I’ve picked <a href="https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@KamalaHarris</a> — a fearless fighter for the little guy, and one of the country’s finest public servants — as my running mate.</p>&mdash; Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1293280411150217219?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

👍 👍 👍 

---

"Abolish CIA & FISA... At home, the Agencies are partisan institutions
illegitimately focused on setting national policy. Abroad, Agencies
untied to specific operational concerns are inherently dangerous and
low-value"

[Link](https://americanmind.org/essays/abolish-the-cia/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Robotics skills in high demand post-Corona <a href="https://t.co/AYySWsnvMn">https://t.co/AYySWsnvMn</a> <a href="https://t.co/Gq10cssocR">pic.twitter.com/Gq10cssocR</a></p>&mdash; Control Design (@Control_Design) <a href="https://twitter.com/Control_Design/status/1293261945668337664?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 11, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@FritzKM

\#Resilient \#fuelcell powered microgrids once again maintained power
for customers during the recent \#hurricaneIsaias grid
outages. \#EnergyPolicy should support these microgrids across the
US"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">With an already record fast start and forecasters predicting a very active <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hurricane?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hurricane</a> season, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energy</a> resilience is becoming an issue business leaders can no longer afford to neglect – both from a strategic and cost perspective. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/isaias?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#isaias</a> Learn more: <a href="https://t.co/Igw7A9ceFB">https://t.co/Igw7A9ceFB</a> <a href="https://t.co/PG6eDURIKV">pic.twitter.com/PG6eDURIKV</a></p>&mdash; Bloom Energy (@Bloom_Energy) <a href="https://twitter.com/Bloom_Energy/status/1291509748244848640?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 6, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Proton Motor Power Systems Receives New Fuel Cell Order from <a href="https://twitter.com/Shell?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Shell</a> Energies--<a href="https://twitter.com/ProtonMotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@ProtonMotor</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Fuelcell</a> hybrid system intended to power Shell’s own line of portable <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> refueling units for buses and trucks-<a href="https://t.co/Q2mIl65mbr">https://t.co/Q2mIl65mbr</a> - <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a>@fuelcellsworks</p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1292820265374756865?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This article is so great:<br><br>“We’re going to sell the living heck out of hydrogen to everybody,” Milton said. “Our stations are not just for us. We’re not just going to sell our location. We’re going to distribute it to others”<a href="https://twitter.com/nikolatrevor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolatrevor</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/nelhydrogen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nelhydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/oeffWm7wQK">https://t.co/oeffWm7wQK</a></p>&mdash; Bjørn Eng (@H2Bjorn) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Bjorn/status/1292819117062402048?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Demonstrative, To the point, running, skeletal example code is worth
its line count in diamonds.

---

Another one for <250 LOC. 2D, but still..

---

Have a major fluid dynamics simulation running with <500 LOC C++
SPH. Only API calls are for graphics, the rest is physics. Fine
approach.

---

SPH is awesome 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Thought I share a little preview of what I am currently working on. This is called Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics it makes Spheres act like Fluid - no colliders, no rigidbody, just Math &amp; Physics.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/unity3d?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#unity3d</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/MadeWithUnity?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#MadeWithUnity</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/gamedev?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#gamedev</a> <a href="https://t.co/Q0YQIu6A9s">pic.twitter.com/Q0YQIu6A9s</a></p>&mdash; Kristin (@itsKristinSrsly) <a href="https://twitter.com/itsKristinSrsly/status/1142852907152412672?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 23, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

This rule is ironclad. Other rules in scifi can be bent or broken, not
this one.

---

Another one; If there is an evil twin in the other universe, he must
have the goatee. We know that. [Here](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-h4xCSLl0L_M/Tuoepd3YEZI/AAAAAAAAMRY/oFwqSTR_XSw/s1600/spock.jpg)

But the real rule is "reverse-facial-hair" rule. So if you have goatee
in this universe, then your evil twin must have no goatee in the other
universe. Example below, Trek DS9.

<img width="240" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EfE9XlnXoAIzcYT?format=png&name=small"/>

---

Scifi audience loves "weapons at maximum". Have to have weapons at
maximum, the captain needs to say that explicitly.

---

Haha saw a Blue Screen of Death at a Zara while passing by. Patch your
Windows 95 dude

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EfE4PjHXkAE4vn5?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

That's right. We fast.

"@mesetatron

I once worked with a South African #programmer who used #linux in TTY
only (no x server), `tmux`, `emacs`. He was moving through code so
fast, I couldn't even see what he was doing"

---

"@NPR

Delta has banned 100 anti-maskers from taking their flights — and even
gone a step further by adding them to a 'no fly' list"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Interesting - and recent - moment in the emergence of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> energy: articles focusing on the financial topic are increasing 👇🏻by <a href="https://twitter.com/NehamsChamaria?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NehamsChamaria</a> for <a href="https://twitter.com/themotleyfool?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@themotleyfool</a> <a href="https://t.co/1TscRh8tDP">https://t.co/1TscRh8tDP</a></p>&mdash; 𝔻𝕠𝕞𝕚𝕟𝕚𝕢𝕦𝕖 𝕃𝕖𝕔𝕠𝕔𝕢 🌏 (@Lecocq_dom) <a href="https://twitter.com/Lecocq_dom/status/1292526738082332672?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 9, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"On an otherwise slow news day for fuel cell stocks, Plug Power shook
up the market with an announcement that U.K.-based supermarket chain
Asda will be buying a "turnkey solution" for its warehouse forklift
fleet, including 'fuel cells, hydrogen fueling equipment, hydrogen and
service' from Plug"

[Link](https://www.fool.com/investing/2020/08/03/why-hydrogen-fuel-cell-stocks-popped-today.aspx)

---

When you are in 'Nam and Charlie is coming at you from all directions,
you need to conserve your ammo. You don't shoot until you see the
whites of their eyes. Very important. Charlie is smart. He'll come at
you but stop at a distance, right outside rifle range, he wants you to
shoot and waste your ammo. So you wait... You hold! UNTIL YOU SEE THE
WHITES OF THEIR EYES. Only then you shoot.

---

Good going Vietnam

"@wang_seaver

Yes, yes New Zealand is doing great on COVID.

But perhaps we can also spare some praise for, say, Vietnam? Vietnam
maintained a 99-day streak without community transmission of COVID-19,
and it has 19.5x the population, 15x the population density, and
1/15th the GDP/capita of NZ"

---

"@RyseHydrogen

JCB heir Jo Bamford today called on Britain to 'grab hold' of its
'green destiny' and take advantage of the hydrogen opportunity it has"

[Link](https://twitter.com/RyseHydrogen/status/1292727853352706054)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">who can git blame him?</p>&mdash; Meseta (@mesetatron) <a href="https://twitter.com/mesetatron/status/1292736096770519040?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 10, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


John Newman - Love Me Again \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/rH4XNaBUTJs)

---

Nice. *Edge of Tomorrow* ends with a John Newman song, bcz it is abt a
time loop? 👍

---

So if you are really smart about the design of the interlocking parts,
how big of a thing could you 3D print in pieces in a medium size
printer? I wonder... 🤔

---

Now dat I have full-blown Linux, in the large and small, I can go back
to `recoll`.

---

"@Jkylebass

Luo Huining, aka The Butcher of Tibet, was sanctioned with Carrie
Lam(b) by the United States yesterday. He and his family may no longer
travel, own property, or show their faces in the US. He should be
brought up on war crimes charges for his actions In Tibet. The
belligerence of china’s wolf propagandists continues to bring comedy
to diplomacy. Did they think there wouldn’t be consequences to the
abrogation of their contract with the US and the UK? Communism’s rise
will be met with crippling sanctions that will subdue...

The economic growth and prosperity that existed under a democracy that
was governed under English law. We have the upper hand as the world
doesn’t trust china or its Monopoly money and closed capital
account. They have an exposed Achilles heel and the world is
aware"

---

And Brussels might be the worst city I've seen in my life. 

---

Glad Im outa there

"Germany has declared the Belgian port city a 'high-risk area.' For
more than a week, Antwerp has been trying to lower infections – with
curfews and a new established coronavirus test center"

---

Live by the sword die by the sword

"@gerryshih

China at least partially blocks Whatsapp Telegram FB Messenger,
Instagram Twitter, Skype etc so basically all conversations with
people in China are concentrated on WeChat, mostly out of convenience
but also by government mandate. Conversely it now becomes an Achilles
heel"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">bunch of babies &quot;wahh i want a government that doesn&#39;t kill me wahh&quot; that&#39;s how you sound</p>&mdash; See Header (@InternetHippo) <a href="https://twitter.com/InternetHippo/status/1291930847893794816?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">music from the final scene of last of the mohicans playing in my head as i walk into dan murphy’s for the second time in 12 hours</p>&mdash; the irishman* (@mrgracemugabe) <a href="https://twitter.com/mrgracemugabe/status/1291954064146567169?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 8, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Lebanon blast was 1/6th of the nuke explosion at Hiroshima"

---

Github contributor is reworking some images. This guy's a f-ing
machine. Receiving a pull request soon.

---

No need for usb cables for photo transfers.. Labtop "on the LAN", with
a little `scp`, after `termux-setup-storage`, phone can send over
files. From well-known dir to another well-known dir, alias it, so it
can be touchscreen typed on phone.

---

Google has completely cornered the market on driver assist /
navigation it looks like. All TR cabbies are on it.

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Ee1W3q8XYAQk4iG?format=jpg&name=small"/>

via @katiesackoff

---

I dont understand how hobbiest keeps building the small stuff but
never move on to bigger stuf... Model Chinook is awesome. But u know
what's more awesome? A big-ass Chinook!

---

Movie idea, ppl leave Earth in spaceship ready to settle, escaping
apocalyptic scenario, land on Mars and then they are like 'dude it
sucks here let's go back', and they return, use all the tools on
Earth. So it's a very roundbout style of scifi. Indirect.

---

"[T]here is almost nothing that could happen to earth that would make
it less hospitable than Mars. Whether it’s nuclear war or massive
global warming, post disaster earth would be way more habitable than
Mars"

[Link](https://www.forbes.com/sites/modeledbehavior/2017/05/06/sorry-nerds-but-colonizing-other-planets-is-not-a-good-plan/)

---

Dude the *consigliere* as the space hero? No. I understand they tried
the old/young thing but then get B. Willis as the "old guy". See
*Armageddon*. \#deepimpact

---

They blew a bomb, doesnt work, then leave, then  remember, "wait we
have all these other bombs!" 🙄 \#deepimpact

---

Was that J Favreau in there? This is where he must have learned how
not to make a movie! \#deepimpact

---

What a disaster of a movie -- *Deep Impact*.

---

It's good to get in the habit of running `ls` before every `rm`.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I want to tell the story of why I now automate as much as my <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/linux?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#linux</a> environment setup as I can. At some point a scripting error created a folder called &#39;~&#39; which contained a bunch of junk files. Without thinking, I did:<br><br>$ rm -rf ~<br><br>🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/programming?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#programming</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fail?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fail</a></p>&mdash; Meseta (@mesetatron) <a href="https://twitter.com/mesetatron/status/1291741133257601024?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 7, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Hah. I guess that should tell you how Americans want to be governed,
Scotus judges are not even elected by the people, they are appointed
by people who are elected by the people. So they are **twice** removed
from the public 😶

"Gallup found that Americans [largely] approved of the [SCOTUS]
justices’ performance"

---

H-a-m-b-u-r-g-a !

😆😆 That was some funny shit \#pinkpanther

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>


