# Week 38

"@oatesjonny

Today I asked the government if it would back genuinely world-beating
British companies which are leading the way in green hydrogen
technologies"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/oatesjonny/status/1306567790988533760)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">My favourite planet! Our photon platform enables missions like this. Time to go! <a href="https://t.co/AWeygsMKNj">https://t.co/AWeygsMKNj</a></p>&mdash; Peter Beck (@Peter_J_Beck) <a href="https://twitter.com/Peter_J_Beck/status/1305637668777201664?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@Dr_ThomasZ

Two of the next four candidate missions for @NASASolarSystem‚Äôs
Discovery Program are focused on Venus, as is Europe‚Äôs EnVision
mission, in which NASA is a partner. Venus also is a planetary
destination we can reach with smaller missions"

---

It's funny I was watching an interview with Peter Beck (RocketLab) he
was saying Venus loooks intreresting a week before the discovery I
made a note of it, than the news

---

So you can change $\frac{\frac{1}{2}}{3}$ into
$\dfrac{\frac{1}{2}}{3}$. Less cramming of fonts into small space when
divisions are involved.

---

`\dfrac`, exactly what i needed...

---

I like the $NH_3$ graphic

"@gencellenergy

Big shout out to Ignite the Spark on the successful virtual event"

[Link](https://twitter.com/gencellenergy/status/1306551025516584966)

---

"@JoeBiden

We can't allow the Good Friday Agreement that brought peace to
Northern Ireland to become a casualty of Brexit.

Any trade deal between the U.S. and U.K. must be contingent upon
respect for the Agreement and preventing the return of a hard
border. Period"

---

Einstein advice on being useful is now more relevant than ever; bcz of
decaying system a pat on the back / "success" / wealth might not
always indicate value. Fictional character Gordon Gekko was
successful, but was he useful?

---

If I wanted to search for a word inside in all files under a directory
starting from `/blah`, I would not want a program that does exactly
that. I'd piece it together from other components. `find /blah -name
'*' -exec grep 'word' {} \;`. The components here are `find` and
`grep`. The Unix Way.

---

"The Unix Philosophy:

Make each [component] do one thing well. 

Expect the output of every [component] to become the input to another"

---

I've had cases with notebooks when keyboard repair was too bothersome,
whole comp had to be replaced. This way u cld simply replace the
external keyboard. Or simply replace the brain (RPi), for upgrades
etc. The Unix Way.

---

They sell portable monitors, plugs right into RPi.. Even notebook for
daily work can be replaced... ü§î RPi, keyb, monitor, all seperate,
seperately replaceable.

---

When Saudi Arabia allowed movie theathers for the first time, BP was
the first movie they showed in cinemas. I wonder why...

---

That's not what *Black Panther* was about.. It was abt simply having a
black king on screen, about "representing". R, e, s, p, e, c and t.

Which is *sorta* fine... There are so many movies abt European kings,
queens, why not a black king? This issue bears a similarity to the
minority billionaire issue though.. The main problem isn't having more
representation among billionaires. The problem is the very presence of
billionaires. We need to come to a point where kings and queens aren't
even inspirational anymore, but seen as despicable. For everyone.

"Black Panther [was abt c]an a good man be a king, and would an
advanced society tolerate a monarch ?"

[Link](https://www.google.com/amp/s/amp.theatlantic.com/amp/article/471516/)

---

Good going Barbados

"Barbados will drop Queen Elizabeth II as its head of state next year"

---

Scientific Python paper in *Nature*!

[Link](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2649-2)

---

Finally found the famous Matlab `wind.mat` file (has wind speed
vectors at x,y,z locations). Ashamed to admit I spent a while
afternoon looking for the f-ing thing. But now the code replicating
Matpunk demos will be *awesome*.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">SCOOP<br><br>In a complete coincidence, a European and Japanese spacecraft is about to fly past Venus in a matter of weeks.<br><br>And, excitingly, the team is going to try and confirm the presence of phosphine, a possible indicator of life.<br><br>Words, by me, <a href="https://twitter.com/Forbes?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Forbes</a><a href="https://t.co/FrazgGcBy8">https://t.co/FrazgGcBy8</a></p>&mdash; Jonathan O‚ÄôCallaghan (@Astro_Jonny) <a href="https://twitter.com/Astro_Jonny/status/1306244941333528582?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 16, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@jamieclimate

Name them after fossil fuel companies.

'Forecasters Are Running Out of Names This Hurricane Season'"

---

That's a pretty good crab walk

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/esQAom1P5uI?start=458" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Gone are the days when Churchill was shitting bricks trying to involve
US in European / UK affairs. Now u can't get rid of them!

---

This thing keeps running in circles doesn't it?

---

ü§£ü§£ü§£

"@SamCoatesSky

Four senior congressmen write to Boris Johnson to reiterate there will
be no US-UK trade deal if the legislation to override the EU-UK
Withdrawal Agreement isn‚Äôt pulled"

---

H2 is the only clean storage solution that can do that - drive a
vehicle for long periods of time and even provide its excess power in
emergency to others.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hydrogen to the rescue! In partnership with <a href="https://twitter.com/DeptofDefense?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@DeptofDefense</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/DHSgov?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@DHSgov</a>, EERE has awarded <a href="https://twitter.com/Cummins?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Cummins</a> approximately $1M to develop H2Rescue, a hydrogen fuel cell truck that will travel to disaster relief sites and provide power, heat, and water. ‚û°Ô∏è <a href="https://t.co/n5Oa31gJZ4">https://t.co/n5Oa31gJZ4</a> <a href="https://t.co/xl3Iv9c5IT">pic.twitter.com/xl3Iv9c5IT</a></p>&mdash; Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (@eeregov) <a href="https://twitter.com/eeregov/status/1305908957916135427?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I really don't understand people who move from computational science
to machine learning. 

---

Homer talked abt Troy ppl thought it was bullshit, but a researcher
found it based on Homer's clues. Maybe Atlantis mentioned by Plato is
real too.

---

Dude. Plato. Total scifi

[Link](https://youtu.be/OjSUcTYGuC0)

---

Chicken Street - Sam√∫el J√≥n Sam√∫elsson Big Band \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/1AnPpNtYqcg)

---

Let's say divergence. [Here is](http://ab-initio.mit.edu/octave-Faddeeva/scripts/general/divergence.m)
one possible numerical implementation. We see WTF it is doing,
calling `gradient` bunch of times, which is also numerics, and
sums. Let's show that.

---

Plus numerics. How did we ever teach these courses without their
corresponding numerics..? I am not talking about one API call, I am
talking about their core implementation methods.

---

Now supplementing Denis Auroux.. Multivariable Calculus.

Sorry, had to do it - its curl expl sucks.

---
 
Okay.. first they need to change the name, so the acronym is better,
not HAVOC.

I propose **L**andfree **A**irbor**N**e **DO**me - LANDO.

(Per PBS Space Time [video](https://youtu.be/gJ5KV3rzuag?t=327) reference,
Lando was the leader of a floating city in *Empire Strikes Back*? Haha)

---

3D travel is key, for any planet. Even for Earth. Maybe even for
habitation on Earth?

---

NASA: "High Altitude Venus Operational Concept

The upper atmosphere of Venus, with similar pressure, density,
gravity, and radiation protection to that of the surface of the earth,
is relatively benign at 50 km. A lighter-than-air vehicle could carry
either a host of instruments and probes, or a habitat and ascent
vehicle for a crew of two astronauts to explore Venus for up to a
month. Such a mission would require less time to complete than a
crewed Mars mission"

<img width="340" src="https://sacd.larc.nasa.gov/files/2016/06/havoc_slider.png"/>

[Link](https://sacd.larc.nasa.gov/smab/havoc/)

---

\#occupyVenus

\#occupyVenus

\#occupyVenus

---

Phosphine Phan :)

"@DrPhosphine

Welcome to all the new phosphine phans! If you are following me
exclusively for a tri-yearly mention of the best molecule you will
have a lovely time. I have worked on PH3 for over a decade and I am
bursting with pride for my little molecule"

[Link](https://twitter.com/DrPhosphine/status/1305563787383242752)

---

Be useful he saz basically.

"Try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of
value" -- Einstein

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">CRAM Air Defense firing in Baghdad tonight intercepting a rocket fired at the Green zone <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Iraq?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Iraq</a> <a href="https://t.co/hdEQ6GBacu">pic.twitter.com/hdEQ6GBacu</a></p>&mdash; CNW (@ConflictsW) <a href="https://twitter.com/ConflictsW/status/1305638287281922050?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Scotland is preparing for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> trains!üè¥Û†ÅßÛ†Å¢Û†Å≥Û†Å£Û†Å¥Û†Åø<a href="https://twitter.com/univofstandrews?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@univofstandrews</a> announced competition to prove that there is the capacity to modify an existing item of rolling stock to install <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> equipment. All of success! <a href="https://t.co/gzFEgqQIrD">https://t.co/gzFEgqQIrD</a>üöÉ</p>&mdash; Thorsten Herbert (@Thorsten_H2) <a href="https://twitter.com/Thorsten_H2/status/1305499795927298049?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


"@Cmdr_Hadfield

If there's life in the upper atmosphere of Venus, then we're going to
find life on many planets and moons - and around other stars"

---

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gJ5KV3rzuag?start=60" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"Astronomers may have found hints of life in clouds of Venus"

---

"Data scientists" learn about the vector dot product as a "distance
measure", bcz their vectors are usually "features" i.e. customer, with
age, height, etc values on it, and if already normalized they can get
$\cos\theta = v_1 \cdot v_2 $, no need to $\arccos$ even just use it
as a raw measure between -1 and +1.

But I bet half of them dont know dot product can be seen as
projection. Sad.

---

Writing an introduction to introduction to linear algebra content,
supplementing the grand teacher Strang.. feels weird...

---

"General Motors and Nikola Corporation announced a strategic
partnership on Tuesday in which GM will supply hydrogen fuel-cell
systems and battery systems to Nikola"

[Link](https://www.greencarreports.com/news/1129530_gm-will-build-nikola-badger-electric-truck-supply-hydrogen-fuel-cell-tech)

---

Even if there is a pivot to Ammonia Economy from Hydrogen Economy (not
much change, cars can still run on H2) the production of clean NH3
requires clean H2 as feedstock. EU made the right bet.

---

"Toyota doubles down on hydrogen fuel cell tech with a redesign of the Mirai"

[Link](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/the-new-awd-electric-polestar-2-is-a-good-blend-of-performance-and-efficiency-2020-09-09)

---

There are pipelines for ammonia too

---

Woha. Woman says saw bird flying straight, then just drop like a
brick, dying from bad air \#fires \#california

---

Even safe quarters on climate are feeling the heat a little.. People
look outside, looks like the end of times... bitchslapping toward
every direction becomes a good idea

---


"The European Parliament‚Äôs Environment Committee ... agreed on a new
EU climate target for 2030. The text, which still needs the approval
of the entire Parliament and the 27 EU member states before becoming
law, commits Europe to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60%"

---

So hitting page down does not scroll web page down anymore? Thank
you. Who thought up this feature?

---

That's right -- command line, as in textual input is much more
expressive than visual clickety click.

One word is worth thousands of pictures.

"The command line remains so incredibly popular because it‚Äôs so
incredibly versatile.

You can do a lot in a terminal. You can manage your OS, apps and
files; you can connect to remote servers, watch movies, play games,
fetch the weather forecast, and a whole heap more"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When you replace your non-working code with something copied from StackOverflow <a href="https://t.co/fGQXIGYdjr">pic.twitter.com/fGQXIGYdjr</a></p>&mdash; Mario Fusco üá™üá∫ (@mariofusco) <a href="https://twitter.com/mariofusco/status/1304862788859432961?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Yeah.. purple air is a deal breaker for me. If I see that shit, I bolt

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">On the importance of good typesetting and layout. <a href="https://t.co/AtPBVLjH6M">pic.twitter.com/AtPBVLjH6M</a></p>&mdash; Nicholas A. Christakis (@NAChristakis) <a href="https://twitter.com/NAChristakis/status/1305263928528777223?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"[Trump during pandemic] said things to meet the need of the fleeting
moment. In February, the need of the moment was to levitate the stock
market. By mid-March, the need of the moment was to sound smart,
aware, in the know"

---

"[17th century] Tsar Alexei, implemented a new legal code [which]
turned all Russian peasants, 80% of the population, into serfs ‚Äì
effectively slaves - their status inherited by their children, and
with no freedom to travel or choose their master.  It was a system
that dominated Russian rural life for the next 200 years"

[Link](https://youtu.be/w0Wmc8C0Eq0?t=600)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Did you miss the official inauguration of the first <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> buses in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Denmark?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Denmark</a>? Don&#39;t worry! You can read all about it on our website‚¨áÔ∏è<a href="https://t.co/EiBYj2H2Wg">https://t.co/EiBYj2H2Wg</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/carbonneutral?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#carbonneutral</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/aalborg?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#aalborg</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ClimateAction?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ClimateAction</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Decarbonizing?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Decarbonizing</a> <a href="https://t.co/vAfgUK99gd">pic.twitter.com/vAfgUK99gd</a></p>&mdash; Fuel cell bus (@Fuelcellbus) <a href="https://twitter.com/Fuelcellbus/status/1305466893092954112?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Me listening to AC/DC: &quot;Akchuwally, TNT and dynamite are different things&quot;</p>&mdash; Cal Young üåª (@annap442) <a href="https://twitter.com/annap442/status/1304948473633046531?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@A_J_Higgins

Dimensionless groupings that don‚Äôt depend on unit system invariably
have great physical significance. By examining the dimensions of the
parameters alone, G.I. Taylor in 1940s was able to solve the dynamics
of blast waves"

--- 

NYT: "Last summer, oil and gas-industry groups were lobbying to
overturn federal rules on leaks of natural gas, a major contributor to
climate change. Their message: The companies had emissions under
control.

In private, the lobbyists were saying something very different.

At a discussion convened last year by the Independent Petroleum
Association of America, a group that represents energy companies,
participants worried that producers were intentionally flaring, or
burning off, far too much natural gas, threatening the industry‚Äôs
image, according to a recording of the meeting reviewed by The New
York Times.

'We‚Äôre just flaring a tremendous amount of gas,' said Ron Ness,
president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, at the June 2019
gathering, held in Colorado Springs. 'This pesky natural gas,' he
said. 'The value of it is very minimal,' particularly to companies
drilling mainly for oil.

A well can produce both oil and natural gas, but oil commands far
higher prices. Flaring it is an inexpensive way of getting rid of the
gas"

[Link](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/12/climate/methane-natural-gas-flaring.html?smtyp=cur&smid=tw-nytclimate)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Lock them up. <a href="https://t.co/uk5VvhngIk">https://t.co/uk5VvhngIk</a></p>&mdash; Katie Thomas (@KtreeThomas) <a href="https://twitter.com/KtreeThomas/status/1304903379949322240?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Why stress retracing the steps of innovators? Students need to see how
research is like. You are trying get something out of the jaws of
mother nature and she doesn't wanna give'm to you. They need to see
how hard that is, to reach point B from point A.

It's not just about "logic" (popularized by some scifi). Logic is
about finding inconsistencies within existing elements, mostly it is
not helpful creating new information.

---

Keyb via dedicated wireless receiver (plugs into USB) is
efficient. Stick something into the board and have it be recognized as
a particular hardware and have it just work. "But any BTooth receiver
can connect to any BT device dude..!". It's pain.

---

RPi distro already has VNC support, `realvnc-vnc-server`

---

Mobile computing setup take \#2. Wireless keyb + built-in touchpad
connects to Raspberry directly via USB dongle. Receives entire desktop
visual on smartphone through VNC.

---

NASA: "Right now on the space station, astronauts receive regular
shipments of a wide variety of freeze-dried and prepackaged meals to
cover their dietary needs ‚Äì resupply missions keep them freshly
stocked"

---

"Lettuce was grown in ISS but we still can't grow food in space in the
quantities which would allow us to sustain human existence"

---

From a cost / benefit angle EU losing just England wld be less painful
for them than losing the entire UK. And for both Scots and N. Ireland
staying in EU is more beneficial for them... So the English are the
odd man out here.. everyone else benefits from letting *them* go

---

"@ProfBrianCox

From a purely logical standpoint, shouldn‚Äôt this say ‚ÄòLeaving EU a
threat to integrity of the U.K.‚Äô because there was no threat before we
left? You can‚Äôt have a policy of erecting a customs and regulatory
border with your neighbour and then blame your neighbour for the
border.

... Telegraph: 'Johnson: EU a threat to integrity of the UK'"

---

"@AlexJamesFitz

just called my cable co to cut TV and go internet-only to save money
and they tried to sell me a YouTube TV plan that would've been more
expensive than what I was paying for straight-up TV via the cable co"

---

Well Emmerich movie *2012* was off by 8 years but.. that's the idea.

---

"Temperature screening alone, at exit or entry, is not an effective way
to stop international spread, since infected individuals may be in
incubation period, may not express apparent symptoms early on in the
course of the disease, or may dissimulate fever through the use of
antipyretics; in addition, such measures require substantial
investments for what may bear little benefits"

[Link](https://www.who.int/news-room/articles-detail/updated-who-recommendations-for-international-traffic-in-relation-to-covid-19-outbreak)

---

Yeah - the Lebanese are tired of that shit. This is just marketing
mumbo-jumbo. They want to stop dying basically, not be a 'phoenix'.

"Beirut is a phoenix ... Legend has it that Beirut was rebuilt from
the ashes seven times, making it an urban phoenix"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Why is fast and furious Tokyo drift the only one in the series that I can rewatch endlessly</p>&mdash; üê™ (@awkrum) <a href="https://twitter.com/awkrum/status/1304999519285915648?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

---
