# Week 36


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The first student presentation of the semester began with, ‚ÄúI‚Äôm not gonna explain the anti-capitalist part of the reading ‚Äî we‚Äôre all Gen Z here, we hate capitalism.‚Äù<br><br>Most of the students nodded vociferously.</p>&mdash; Zachary Levenson (@grundrza) <a href="https://twitter.com/grundrza/status/1301594015532560386?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 3, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

What do I think of Hollande of FR?

Whenever I get these questions, I always check a person's Epstein
number first.

[Picture \#1](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EhIfl-bXsAUpJFK?format=jpg&name=small)

[Picture \#2](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EhIfs_RWkAQpl_0?format=jpg&name=small)

[Picture \#3](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EgPe-HTWkAAKbbl?format=jpg&name=small)

Hollande's Epstein number is 3.

He is okay I guess, a so-so character.

---

The B-word.. Oh no.

Next you'll hear we need "Team of Rivals" approach for governance.

"@sargoth

I don't know who needs to hear this, but when US politicians say
"bipartisan", you are never one of the parties involved'

---

Bosch is world's top parts supplier. Number ‚òù 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">.<a href="https://twitter.com/BoschPress?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@boschpress</a>: the mobility of the future needs <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> - Seven reasons why fuel cells and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> are crucial building blocks of tomorrow‚Äôs <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/mobility?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#mobility</a>.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CleanMobility?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CleanMobility</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FutureOfTransport?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FutureOfTransport</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://t.co/sN7XRblVRE">https://t.co/sN7XRblVRE</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Europe (@H2Europe) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1301778804201926657?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 4, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Any global investor, or would-be innovator, might gaze across at the
ice wall of patent knowledge surrounding US tech companies and
conclude it cannot be breached. ...  But ice walls melt and legal
systems can turn on technology monopolists. That happened to Thomas
Edison with movie patents, AT&T with telephony"

[Link](https://www.ft.com/content/dd908d81-4859-4d19-a1e8-e5f7b4f01ad0)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;died when officials moved to arrest him&quot;</p>&mdash; kavita poduri (@yrgirlkv) <a href="https://twitter.com/yrgirlkv/status/1301727149204762624?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 4, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The game *Gravity Vector* -- nice scenery

[Link](https://twitter.com/POLIEXA/status/1153770002476085249)

---

US violated its own rule that it followed since WWII by creating such
a strong relationship with a non-democracy. There were strong ties
with Japan, Germany, Europe -- all democracies after WWII. 

"But US made China favored, why shouldn't it help a country?"

---

Sounds like some mafiosi shit. 

Or like *Blade* where there are "familiars", fanbois, they are allowed
to live

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">these cards were a fact of life where i grew up, and i never saw a cop NOT let someone off if they had one and showed it to them <a href="https://t.co/UjV7ZKFSI2">https://t.co/UjV7ZKFSI2</a></p>&mdash; Casey Johnston (@caseyjohnston) <a href="https://twitter.com/caseyjohnston/status/1301137317210587140?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 2, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@MilesMJohnson

This is a riveting account of Dan‚Äôs epic Wirecard reporting that
should drive home the fact that there are legions of libel lawyers,
spin doctors and dark arts specialists being paid millions to muzzle
investigative journalism in the UK"

[Link](https://twitter.com/MilesMJohnson/status/1301449351609421824)

---

The Discrete Universal DEnoiser = DUDE

If image proc ppl ever do BOHICA the fun will be complete

---

A good chunk of money for H2 from France 

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/Thorsten_H2/status/1301485976204783622)

---

"@SeanMcElwee

biden +3 in TX"

[Link](https://filesforprogress.org/datasets/2020/9/dfp_tx_survey_key_findings_sept4.pdf)

---

Fox News piles on.

[Link](https://twitter.com/hunterschwarz/status/1301996761309802496)

---

It stands for "Creating Conscious Communities with People Outside". It's funny.

---

The tent city is called C3PO? :)

[Link](https://twitter.com/NoBonzo/status/1302091737658093568)

---

"@MetalShayne2000

I've found the greatest movie poster of all time"

[Link](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EhFvsuwXsAIDUsc?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Ilay and Beat C - The Answer (Ilay Mix) \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/DJ8bM1UUVBs)

---

Some more action..

Coefficient of restitution = 1

[Link](https://twitter.com/muratk3n/status/1301483223583780870)

---

They delegitimized entire swaths of political spectrum. But the need
for those views didnt go away. The unwanted parts just moved
elsewhere, morphed, came together in unseeming ways and became
Brexit.

If they didnt do Red Ed, maybe now they wouldnt have a Tory PM who
said "fuck business".

They did this. The situation today is their punishment.

---

[Red Ed](https://libcom.org/files/images/blog/ddddd.jpg).. :)
Ahhh.. The crazy work of the rowdy British press.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Lost today! üòä <a href="https://t.co/HM30hPeGtI">https://t.co/HM30hPeGtI</a></p>&mdash; Julia Barnes (@jpkbarnes) <a href="https://twitter.com/jpkbarnes/status/1300966192849530886?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 2, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@EdMarkey

Growing up, my father told me, don‚Äôt beg for your rights, you
organize, and you take them. So, to the young people fighting in this
movement for change, here is my charge: march in the streets, protest,
run for school committee or city council or the state legislature. And
win"

---

We are talking about a synergy between hardware and software, between
cash flow and capital needs. C'mon

[Link](https://youtu.be/emKcqBql4rs?t=211)

---

Slapping new tech on old structure with ineffective results but making
it look shiny so you can technobabble about it... This will be a centrist
Walhalla.

"@meowdiao

Zoom preschool is both hilarious and depressing. My 4 year old keeps
unmuting himself and yelling 'I DON'T KNOW YOUR NAME! IS THIS MEETING
OVER YET?'"

---

Good good..

Future relationship with China might not be too profitable either,
makes sense from that angle.. As long as CH was "favored" they could
earn dollars they could pay others with. With that reduced, future looks
iffy. Noone wants monopoly money. And dont try to back curr "with
gold", the stupidest f-ing scheme ever. People will clap and scream
"new world order" but behind the scenes they will say "give me my
dollars bitch!".

"Germany has announced a new blueprint for relations with Asia, calling
in particular for 'diversity' in its focus in the region"

[Link](https://youtu.be/DeuZZoC4ICg)

---

What is this, the 70s? I thought I was watching an old vid for a while
then I saw the lady in the background with the mask

"@NBCPhiladelphia

Ander Christensen, a Nebraska resident, made a passionate plea to the
Lincoln City Council to rename boneless chicken wings because they are
not in fact wings from a chicken"

[Link](https://twitter.com/NBCPhiladelphia/status/1301213811458928640)

---

Boris Johnson, 2018: "Fuck business"

[Link](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-44618154)

---

Supply-Sider

"@JenniferJJacobs

NEWS: Trump admin, trying to prevent an eviction crisis, says it'll
use CDC quarantine authority to prevent renters from being evicted."

---

"Zoom¬†shares soared 41% on Tuesday, lifting the videoconferencing
software company's market cap to $129 billion after¬†revenue and
earnings¬†blew past analysts' estimates"

---

A lot of them lived through 60/70s, which were not silent times, but
US still had some pizzazz, hadn't sold its soul yet. Then it became
Brasil. Sad.

"@cwarzel

increasingly having this a convo this summer that leads to the same
scary place: the vast majority of those in power right now grew up
during a golden age of relative social/political stability and believe
that stability is the norm and thus are deeply unprepared for this
moment"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We are thrilled to have successfully closed our Series A financing round üöÄ <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SolarFoods?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#SolarFoods</a>&#39; first commercial production facility is going full speed ahead. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Solein?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Solein</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SustainableProtein?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#SustainableProtein</a> <a href="https://t.co/qngI1liJvK">pic.twitter.com/qngI1liJvK</a></p>&mdash; Solar Foods (@Solar_Foods) <a href="https://twitter.com/Solar_Foods/status/1300776595037315072?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 1, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@jdesmondharris

When we first talked about virtual education and inequality, I was
imagining some kids at the kitchen table while others struggled to
find a quiet place and wifi. It did not occur to me that the
privileged kids would have ENTIRE ACTUAL REAL CLASSROOMS built in
their homes"

---

Liquidus Ambiento - Carna√∫ba \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/a_LpPsN5eNY)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> fuel cell-powered heavy goods vehicles (HGV) will be deployed in New Zealand thanks to a new partnership between Hiringa Energy and <a href="https://twitter.com/hyzonmotors?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@hyzonmotors</a>. <a href="https://t.co/fdhVJImQEj">https://t.co/fdhVJImQEj</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1300701199038058500?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 1, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The hilarious part is C will happily let you do that. Coding close to
the metal.

---

Cast everything to `void *`. Then cast that t anything else,
anytime. Wanna dance with the devil boy?! Do it!

---

Centrist Dems and some Reps like Newt merely used the mystique of tech
to justify undoing of social services. "We cant give healthcare to
people". Why?  "Well, smart sensors, knowledge economy, blah
blah". 

3W methodology always stressed how tech, especially a different breed
of tech (post-industrial) will cause *social disruption* unless it is
handled, i.e. proper structures are formed around it. Tech by itself,
in the grander sense, will create more problems than it solves.

They didn't think of any of that. Did anyone talk about the downside?
Any related talk was cleverly steered towards hyperboly,
next-to-zero-chance type events, such as "AI apocalypse", so everyone
could slap themselves in the back and say they thought of "all
angles". "We've got that covered, you see, we are talking about the
dangers of tech". The flare having gone off, they could now go their
marry way to slut themselves to corporations.

---

From the song *The Unpossible*: "We have the word impossible, but we
need to differentiate between two sorts of things. The impossible is
that which by definition can never be done. We need another word:
unpossible"

---

Emphasis ‚Äé‚Äì Bad Omen \#music

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kb0pqrEAHLM&t=1412s)

---

Physics has the best words

---

THE COEFFICIENT OF RESTITUTION

---

OBLIQUE COLLISION

---

Fort Knox Five - The FK Strut \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/mhwLF-RGtJE)

---

As per policy I'd just insert H2 / NH4 FC tech in there somewhere. Say
"it's for long-range", "for steel". Once it is cemented for
anything, it will destroy everything else in the long-run, bcz using
the same tech for everything has other benefits, training, deployment,
maintanance etc. Alternatives will go to the way of Betamax.

---

The prevalence of the self-help lit during the 80/90s had to do with
over-commercialization of everything. Life was about "the market",
everyone working "for the market". Then, by implication, if something
bad happened to you, u felt down, it was all your fault. *You* failed
the market. Personal income disrupted for a few months and u get hit
with an health insurance bill of thousands pushing you to bankruptcy?
Your fault. You didn't have an "up personality", could not "crush
it". The guy with the big teeth will tell you how.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Every year at this time as the sun rises noticeably later each morning I am reminded that sin(theta)~theta for theta&lt;&lt;1</p>&mdash; Mike Brown (@plutokiller) <a href="https://twitter.com/plutokiller/status/1300820241149124608?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 1, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"The conflict between the haves and have-nots also feeds into another
major theme of cyberpunk.  Often depicting future dystopias where
megacorporations wield more power than governments, and rule the world
from lofty skyscrapers, overlooking the streets where cyberpunk heroes
try to make ends meet doing illicit jobs, either for these
corporations, or against them"

[Link](https://youtu.be/sttm8Q9rOdQ?t=187)

---

"VoltH2 will build a green plant with storage in North Sea Port"

[Link](https://www.h2-view.com/story/volth2-to-develop-green-hydrogen-plant-in-north-sea-port/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Great to see that <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Everfuel?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Everfuel</a> has reached out to countries across the world and into the green newsroom at <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Bloomberg?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Bloomberg</a>.com<br><br>Link to article: <a href="https://t.co/kr15vQ2Qlm">https://t.co/kr15vQ2Qlm</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Thefutureisnow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Thefutureisnow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GreenTransport?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GreenTransport</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ClimateChange?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ClimateChange</a></p>&mdash; Everfuel (@EverfuelEU) <a href="https://twitter.com/EverfuelEU/status/1299332125523685376?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 28, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

*Bladerunner* bombed when it came out? Makes sense; I never liked it
as a movie. It might have been influential on other directors, but, as
a movie on its own wasn't all that great. *Star Wars* in the 70s was
both, cinematically influential and a movie people would like.

---

Frank Macdonald and Chris Rae - Soul City Drive \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/wkjDvNV5H3E)

---

**LEARN**

"But as a Muslim I don't know how to tolerate such a thing"

---

Great idea. In fact do this every month. 

"Charlie Hebdo reprints cartoons of prophet ahead of terror trial"

---

JS: "One of the leading causes of homelessness in this country is, in
fact, our shortage of low-income housing. After mental illness and
substance abuse, minimum-size standards have probably kept more people
on the street than any other contributing factor. Countless attempts
to design and build efficient forms of shelter by and for the homeless
have been thwarted by these codes.  By demanding all or nothing from
our homes, current restrictions ensure that the have-nots have nothing
at all. The U.N. Declaration of Universal Human Rights (of which the
United States is a signatory) holds shelter to be a fun- damental
human right. Yet, in the U.S.. this right is guaranteed only to those
with enough money to afford the opulence"

---

Grim and grimmer

JS: "It is illegal to inhabit a tiny home in most populated areas of
the U.S. The housing industry and the banks sustaining it spent much
of the 1970s and 1980s pushing for larger houses to produce more
profit per structure, and housing authorities all cross the country
adopted this bias in the form of minimum-size standards. The stated
purpose of these codes is to preserve the high quality of living
enjoyed in our urban and suburban areas by defining how small a house
can be. They govern the size of every habitable room and details
therein. By aiming to eliminate all but the most extravagant housing,
size standards have effectively eliminated housing for everyone but
the most affluent Americans.

Again, the intention of these limits is to keep unsightly little
houses from popping up and lowering property values in America‚Äôs
communities and, moreover, to ensure that the housing industry is
adequately sustained. The actual results of the limits are a greater
number of unsightly large houses, inordinate construction waste,
higher emissions, sprawl and deforestation, and, for those who cannot
afford these larger houses, homelessness"

---

JS: "For most Americans, big houses have come to symbolize the good
life; but, all symbolism aside, the life these places actually foster
is more typically one of drudgery. Mortgage payments can appropriate
thirty to forty percent of a household‚Äôs income not counting taxes,
insurance, or maintenance expenses. When every spare penny is going
towards house payments, there is nothing left over for investments,
travel, continued education, more time with the kids, or even so much
as a minute to relax and enjoy life. At this rate, an oversized house
can start to look more like a debtor‚Äôs prison than a home"

---

JS is the grandfather of the tiny house movement.

Jay Shafer, 2009: "My reasons for choosing to live in such small
houses include some environmental concerns. The two largest of my
three, hand-built homes were made with only about 4,800 pounds of
building materials each, less than 100 pounds of which went to the
local landfill. Each produced less than 900 pounds of greenhouse gases
during a typical Iowa winter. And, at 89 square feet, plus porch and
loft, each fit snugly into a single parking space.

In contrast, the average American house consumes about three quarters
of an acre of forest and produces about seven tons of construction
waste. It emits 18 tons of greenhouse gases annually, and, at more
than 2,349 square feet, it would most definitely not fit into a single
parking space"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Might just give it all up and become a park ranger</p>&mdash; Jessica Christian (@jachristian) <a href="https://twitter.com/jachristian/status/1300464758055813120?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 31, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

SPHeric. Cool \#SPH

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EgwUiRzXcAMZhkg?format=jpg&name=large"/>

---

SPH `hokusai`, not bad. Dam break 3D 

[Link](https://twitter.com/muratk3n/status/1300458959283851269)

---

No I do not support DJT. Just pointing out the weirdness of how things
aligned recently... Not just in US, in UK and other places
too.. British Tory PM talking about a "New Deal" while the Labor
leader is going to extreme lengths not to seem pro-Palestine, sorry
"anti-Semitic". This is weird.

---

Academics can be smart but they are usually not software
engineers. They'll create bazillion of dependencies, the whole thing
becomes a mess. Also nothing easily demonstrable included (comes with
the territory, they earn their stripes being as obscure, "mystical" as
possible, the publishing process makes them so).

---

Bloody university code. 

---

`void *`

Had not seen that for a while. 

---

Aha. So you are not supposed to say "Im was saved bcz of the right
things I *achieved*". It was a gift to you. It is emphasizing
selflessness.

Religion is ancient time's left (it is politics). Also, it is the
self-help lit of its time. Instead of a guy with big teeth running
around teaching you how to "crush it", there is the lit on how to take
it easy, chillax, turn the other cheek once in a while.

"Ephesians 2:8 

For by grace have ye been saved through faith; and that not of
yourselves, it is the gift of God"

---

They are still printing in layers, but the layer resolution is
extremely high, and the process is more continuous. Promising tech.

[Link](https://youtu.be/23at9QglAm8)

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ihR9SX7dgRo?start=51" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Motivating people to go to the voting booth falls on the shoulder of
leaders. 

---

No

"Should we make voting mandatory?"

---

Yes

"Was Trump's 2016 election a sign of democracy working?"

---

Absolutely. One question was "you meet someone from Amsterdam, what is
their nationality?". Guy goes uuuhhh, the laughter machine goes
off... But, how cld the guy know what? Does he deal with this
particular nationality daily? Know anyone from there?

Another didn't know how rainbows work... Big deal.

Democracy doesn't need book-smart citizens. As long as they can tell
whether they are better or worse off compared to 2/4/6 yrs ago, they
can roughly judge a person, we're fine. Expecting more from them
signals to me a certain pretentiousness on the part of the expector.

"If people do not know much about things outside their expertise, are
scenes we saw in Jay Leno's Jaywalking justified?"

---

Hey white ppl had bunch of Supermen die, get paralyzed on them, so
blacks are not alone. 

"Black ppl lost their superhero, they are heartbroken"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Mr. Boseman leveled the playing field while fighting for his life... That‚Äôs heroism. I‚Äôll remember the good times, the laughter, and the way he changed the game... <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/chadwickforever?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#chadwickforever</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/chadwickboseman?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@chadwickboseman</a> <a href="https://t.co/IFfCSmLrhR">pic.twitter.com/IFfCSmLrhR</a></p>&mdash; Robert Downey Jr (@RobertDowneyJr) <a href="https://twitter.com/RobertDowneyJr/status/1299772119803330560?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 29, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Chadwick Boseman RIP.

---

Inferior product.. that is the root of it all isn't it?  \#trek

[Link](https://youtu.be/A6I7eYAq3zM?t=655)

---

Fuckin Newt

---

I remember Newt used to talk nonsense on tech all the time too,
'information technology will let you compare price, smart sensors blah
blah". 90s were the age of technobabble. All glitz no substance.

---

On "the war with China"; Trump doesn't like war (and not just bcz they
cost money). He had Soleimani, one guy, killed so he wouldnt have to
kill 100s or 1000s. He'll get mad at his own advisors if they get too
war-mongery around him. From a few select people he'll take it, like
Mustache, who is, as we know, not in the WH anymore.

---

It was too early for that. 3W structures were nowhere to be found, and
still MIA to this day. So what Dems ended up doing was a hi-tech
paint-job, empty talk, marketing glitz using tech while they
dismantled left using tech as excuse. This contributed to a massive
problem of inequality.

I cannot begin to describe the obnoxious daftness of these
people. That Post-Berlin-Wall euphoria must have been one hell of a
drug because they all burned their brain cells on it.

"Maybe Dems moved away from left due to new tech, as you say Third Wave"

---

Going against corp interests by reworking trade deals to bring labor
back which moved to China, so workers would make more money?

Yes ultra-capitalist mastermind this guy.

"But wasn't Trump's China policy a hard-right policy, he wants war with China?"

---

I can't believe these things are real

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">43 USC ¬ß373b, 43 CFR ¬ß420.12(d)(3) &amp; ¬ß420.12 make it a federal crime to drive an off-road vehicle on Bureau of Reclamation land while you&#39;re drunk, but &quot;off-road vehicle&quot; does not include a lawnmower.</p>&mdash; A Crime a Day (@CrimeADay) <a href="https://twitter.com/CrimeADay/status/1299878501617721346?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 30, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Normandy, is it?

---

Niicee. Where the F is that?

<img src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EgqplmAXsAAhGIj?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

Trying to create magical negros out of my Anatolian negros?

---

The geo is all wrong too, try Bursa, Anatolia, in so-called Turkey

---

Wrong 60s. Try [1867](../../2013/12/inventions-of-kebabic-kind.md).

"Doner kebap was invented in Berlin when immigrants [so-called Turks]
arrived there, during 60s"

---

"@lauriechenwords

Thomas Piketty confirmed that his latest book won‚Äôt be published in
China, since he refused to bow to censors‚Äô demands to cut a section on
rising inequality under the CCP ... President Xi Jinping heaped praise
on Thomas Pikkety‚Äôs magnum opus Capital in the 21st Century, but his
new book on inequality has fallen afoul of China‚Äôs censors"

---

<center>
<img width="140" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ETZJzIkXgAAEi9Q?format=jpg&name=small"/>
</center>

