# Hossein-Zadeh

*The Political Economy of US Militarism*, 2006

Pecking Order

Despite the fact that oil companies nowadays view war and political
turmoil in the Middle East as detrimental to their long-term interests
and, therefore, do not support policies that are conducive to war and
militarism, and despite the fact that war is no longer the way to gain
access to cheap oil, the widespread perception that every
U.S. military engagement in the region, including the current invasion
of Iraq, is prompted by oil considerations continues. The question is
why?..

[T]he major reason for the persistence of this pervasive perception
seems to stem from certain deliberate efforts that are designed to
perpetuate the myth in order to camouflage some real economic and
geopolitical special interests that drive the U.S. military adventures
in the Middle East. There is evidence that both the
military-industrial complex and militant Zionist proponents of
'greater Israel' disingenuously use oil as a U.S. 'national interest
issue' in order to disguise their own nefarious special interests and
objectives: justification of continued expansion of military spending,
extension of sales markets for the products of war and war-related
industries, and recasting the geopolitical map of the Middle East
according to the designs of hard-line Zionism.  Evidence indicates
that for every dollar’s worth of oil imported from the Persian Gulf
region the Pentagon takes $5 out of the federal budget to 'secure' the
flow of that oil! This is a clear indication that the claim that the
U.S. military presence in the Middle East is due to oil consideration
is a fraud..

A widely shared.. view, especially outside of the United States,
attributes the recent rise of U.S. militarism, especially the invasion
of Iraq, to the geopolitical imperatives of Israel and the concomitant
influence of the Zionist lobby. Some of the proponents of this view go
so far as to argue that the U.S. foreign and/or military policies in
the Middle East are made by leading forces or figures of militant
Zionism.. Without denying the contributory roles of these factors, [my
work] points to a more crucial force behind the drive to war and
militarism: the powerful beneficiaries of military expansion and war
dividends, or the military-industrial complex and related influential
interests that are vested in the business of war and military
expansion...

It is no secret that the major force behind the [1996] Iran-Libya
Sanction Act was the America Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC),
the main Political Economy of U.S. Militarism Zionist lobby in
Washington. The success of AIPAC in passing ILSA through both the
Congress and the White House over the opposition of the major U.S. oil
companies is testament to the fact that, in the context of U.S. policy
in the Middle East, even the influence of the oil industry pales
vis-à-vis the influence of the Zionist lobby..

Official explanations such as weapons of mass destruction, Saddam’s
threat to the United States, or his connection to Al-Qaida, can now
easily be dispensed with as flimsy, harebrained pretexts for the
invasion of Iraq. Critics have, instead, pointed to a number of other
factors behind the drive to war. Those factors are divided into two
categories in this chapter: secondary or minor factors and primary or
major ones. Included among secondary reasons for the war are the role
of domestic politics, the influence of the so-called neoconservative
ideologues, and the role of oil. Primary or major factors include the
military-industrial complex and the militant Zionist proponents of
“greater Israel.” I will call the unofficial, unspoken, de facto
alliance between these two major forces, precipitated by a convergence
of their respective interests on war and political convulsion in the
Middle East, the military-industrial-Likud alliance...

Frightened by the specter of peace and/or peace dividends [after the
fall of the Berlin Wall], beneficiaries of military spending
frantically sought to invent and substitute 'new threats' for the
'communist threat' of the Cold War era, thereby preempting the
realization of peace dividends.

In pursuit of this goal, beneficiaries of war and militarism found a
strong, well-established network of politically savvy allies: radical
Zionist proponents of 'greater Israel.' Because the interests of these
two powerful groups converged over fomenting war and political
convulsion in the Middle East, an ominously potent alliance was forged
between them— ominous, because the mighty U.S. war machine was now
supplemented by the almost unrivaled public relations capabilities of
the hard-line pro-Israel lobby in the United States. The alliance is
unofficial and de facto; it is subtly forged through an elaborate
network of powerful militaristic think tanks..

The Dog

U.S. policy makers in the Middle East would go along with the demands
of the radical Zionist lobby only if such demands also tend to serve
the special interests that those policy makers represent or serve —
not necessarily the interests of the American people, or collective
U.S. 'national interests' in general. The fact that, as pointed out
earlier, U.S. foreign policy during the Cold War era was less
accommodating to the territorial desires of militant Zionism than in
the post–Cold War period is an indication of this point. Another
corroborating indication of the point is that as the
military-industrial complex has been gaining more and more influence
over U.S. foreign policy, that policy has, accordingly, been more and
more geared to the wishes of hard-line Zionism because, as has been
frequently pointed out in this chapter, the interests of the U.S.
military establishment converge with those of militant Zionism over
war and political convulsion in the Middle East.. 

It does not follow.. as some critics argue, the U.S.–Israeli
relationship represents a case of 'tail wagging the dog,' that is, the
U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East is shaped by the
Israeli/Zionist leaders. Nor do I subscribe to the hoary anti-Semitic
canards that are used to put forth a specious case for Jews trying to
run the world. While, no doubt, the powerful Jewish lobby exerts
considerable influence over U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East,
the efficacy and the extent of that influence depend, ultimately, on
the real economic and geopolitical interests of U.S. foreign policy
makers. In other words, U.S. policy makers in the Middle East would go
along with the demands of the radical Zionist lobby only if such
demands also tend to serve the special interests that those policy
makers represent or serve—not necessarily the interests of the
American people, or collective U.S. 'national interests' in
general. The fact that, as pointed out earlier, U.S. foreign policy
during the Cold War era was less accommodating to the territorial
desires of militant Zionism than in the post–Cold War period is an
indication of this point. Another corroborating indication of the
point is that as the military-industrial complex has been gaining more
and more influence over U.S. foreign policy, that policy has,
accordingly, been more and more geared to the wishes of hard-line
Zionism because, as has been frequently pointed out in this chapter,
the interests of the U.S.  military establishment converge with those
of militant Zionism over war and political convulsion in the Middle
East..

