# On the Phenomenon of Bullshit Jobs

David Graeber, First Published in 2013

In the year 1930, John Maynard Keynes predicted that, by century’s
end, technology would have advanced sufficiently that countries like
Great Britain or the United States would have achieved a fifteen-hour
work week. There’s every reason to believe he was right. In
technological terms, we are quite capable of this. And yet it didn’t
happen. Instead, technology has been marshaled, if anything, to figure
out ways to make us all work more. In order to achieve this, jobs have
had to be created that are, effectively, pointless. Huge swathes of
people, in Europe and North America in particular, spend their entire
working lives performing tasks they secretly believe do not really
need to be performed.  The moral and spiritual damage that comes from
this situation is profound. It is a scar across our collective
soul. Yet virtually no one talks about it.

Why did Keynes’s promised utopia—still being eagerly awaited in the
sixties —never materialize? The standard line today is that he didn’t
figure in the massive increase in consumerism. Given the choice
between less hours and more toys and pleasures, we’ve collectively
chosen the latter. This presents a nice morality tale, but even a
moment’s reflection shows it can’t really be true. Yes, we have
witnessed the creation of an endless variety of new jobs and
industries since the twenties, but very few have anything to do with
the production and distribution of sushi, iPhones, or fancy sneakers.

So what are these new jobs, precisely? A recent report comparing
employment in the US between 1910 and 2000 gives us a clear picture
(and I note, one pretty much exactly echoed in the UK). Over the
course of the last century, the number of workers employed as domestic
servants, in industry, and in the farm sector has collapsed
dramatically. At the same time, “professional, managerial, clerical,
sales, and service workers” tripled, growing “from one-quarter to
three-quarters of total employment.” In other words, productive jobs
have, just as predicted, been largely automated away. (Even if you
count industrial workers globally, including the toiling masses in
India and China, such workers are still not nearly so large a
percentage of the world population as they used to be.)

But rather than allowing a massive reduction of working hours to free
the world’s population to pursue their own projects, pleasures,
visions, and ideas, we have seen the ballooning not even so much of
the “service” sector as of the administrative sector, up to and
including the creation of whole new industries like financial services
or telemarketing, or the unprecedented expansion of sectors like
corporate law, academic and health administration, human resources,
and public relations. And these numbers do not even reflect all those
people whose job is to provide administrative, technical, or security
support for these industries, or, for that matter, the whole host of
ancillary industries (dog washers, all-night pizza deliverymen) that
only exist because everyone else is spending so much of their time
working in all the other ones.

These are what I propose to call “bullshit jobs.”

It’s as if someone were out there making up pointless jobs just for
the sake of keeping us all working. And here, precisely, lies the
mystery. In capitalism, this is precisely what is not supposed to
happen. Sure, in the old inefficient Socialist states like the Soviet
Union, where employment was considered both a right and a sacred duty,
the system made up as many jobs as it had to. (This is why in Soviet
department stores it took three clerks to sell a piece of meat.) But,
of course, this is the very sort of problem market competition is
supposed to fix.  According to economic theory, at least, the last
thing a profit-seeking firm is going to do is shell out money to
workers they don’t really need to employ. Still, somehow, it happens.

While corporations may engage in ruthless downsizing, the layoffs and
speed- ups invariably fall on that class of people who are actually
making, moving, fixing, and maintaining things. Through some strange
alchemy no one can quite explain, the number of salaried paper pushers
ultimately seems to expand, and more and more employees find
themselves—not unlike Soviet workers, actually —working forty- or even
fifty-hour weeks on paper but effectively working fifteen hours just
as Keynes predicted, since the rest of their time is spent organizing
or attending motivational seminars, updating their Facebook profiles,
or downloading TV box sets.

The answer clearly isn’t economic: it’s moral and political. The
ruling class has figured out that a happy and productive population
with free time on their hands is a mortal danger. (Think of what
started to happen when this even began to be approximated in the
sixties.) And, on the other hand, the feeling that work is a moral
value in itself, and that anyone not willing to submit themselves to
some kind of intense work discipline for most of their waking hours
deserves nothing, is extraordinarily convenient for them.

Once, when contemplating the apparently endless growth of
administrative responsibilities in British academic departments, I
came up with one possible vision of hell. Hell is a collection of
individuals who are spending the bulk of their time working on a task
they don’t like and are not especially good at. Say they were hired
because they were excellent cabinetmakers, and then discover they are
expected to spend a great deal of their time frying fish. Nor does the
task really need to be done—at least, there’s only a very limited
number of fish that need to be fried. Yet somehow they all become so
obsessed with resentment at the thought that some of their coworkers
might be spending more time making cabinets and not doing their fair
share of the fish-frying responsibilities that before long, there’s
endless piles of useless, badly cooked fish piling up all over the
workshop, and it’s all that anyone really does.

I think this is actually a pretty accurate description of the moral dynamics of
our own economy.

Now, I realize any such argument is going to run into immediate
objections: “Who are you to say what jobs are really ‘necessary’?
What’s ‘necessary,’ anyway? You’re an anthropology professor—what’s
the ‘need’ for that?” (And, indeed, a lot of tabloid readers would
take the existence of my job as the very definition of wasteful social
expenditure.) And on one level, this is obviously true. There can be
no objective measure of social value.

I would not presume to tell someone who is convinced they are making a
meaningful contribution to the world that, really, they are not. But
what about those people who are themselves convinced their jobs are
meaningless? Not long ago, I got back in touch with a school friend
whom I hadn’t seen since I was fifteen. I was amazed to discover that
in the interim, he had become first a poet, then the front man in an
indie rock band. I’d heard some of his songs on the radio, having no
idea the singer was someone I actually knew. He was obviously
brilliant, innovative, and his work had unquestionably brightened and
improved the lives of people all over the world. Yet, after a couple
of unsuccessful albums, he’d lost his contract, and, plagued with
debts and a newborn daughter, ended up, as he put it, “taking the
default choice of so many directionless folk: law school.” Now he’s a
corporate lawyer working in a prominent New York firm.  He was the
first to admit that his job was utterly meaningless, contributed
nothing to the world, and, in his own estimation, should not really
exist.

There’s a lot of questions one could ask here, starting with, What
does it say about our society that it seems to generate an extremely
limited demand for talented poet-musicians but an apparently infinite
demand for specialists in corporate law? (Answer: If 1 percent of the
population controls most of the disposable wealth, what we call “the
market” reflects what they think is useful or important, not anybody
else.) But even more, it shows that most people in pointless jobs are
ultimately aware of it. In fact, I’m not sure I’ve ever met a
corporate lawyer who didn’t think their job was bullshit. The same
goes for almost all the new industries outlined above. There is a
whole class of salaried professionals that, should you meet them at
parties and admit that you do something that might be considered
interesting (an anthropologist, for example), will want to avoid even
discussing their line of work entirely. Give them a few drinks, and
they will launch into tirades about how pointless and stupid their job
really is.

This is a profound psychological violence here. How can one even begin
to speak of dignity in labor when one secretly feels one’s job should
not exist? How can it not create a sense of deep rage and resentment?
Yet it is the peculiar genius of our society that its rulers have
figured out a way, as in the case of the fish fryers, to ensure that
rage is directed precisely against those who actually do get to do
meaningful work. For instance: in our society, there seems to be a
general rule that, the more obviously one’s work benefits other
people, the less one is likely to be paid for it. Again, an objective
measure is hard to find, but one easy way to get a sense is to ask:
What would happen were this entire class of people to simply
disappear? Say what you like about nurses, garbage collectors, or
mechanics, it’s obvious that were they to vanish in a puff of smoke,
the results would be immediate and catastrophic...

If someone had designed a work regime perfectly suited to maintaining
the power of finance capital, it’s hard to see how he or she could
have done a better job. Real, productive workers are relentlessly
squeezed and exploited. The remainder are divided between a terrorized
stratum of the universally reviled unemployed and a larger stratum who
are basically paid to do nothing, in positions designed to make them
identify with the perspectives and sensibilities of the ruling class
(managers, administrators, etc.)—and particularly its financial
avatars—but, at the same time, foster a simmering resentment against
anyone whose work has clear and undeniable social value. Clearly, the
system was never consciously designed. It emerged from almost a
century of trial and error. But it is the only explanation for why,
despite our technological capacities, we are not all working three-to
four-hour days.
