# The Power of Nations

Michael Beckley [Article](https://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/isec_a_00328)

Many scholars and analysts measure power in terms of
resources. Unfortunately, most of them measure resources in gross
rather than net terms. As noted, gross indicators systematically
overstate the power of populous countries, because they count the
benefits of having a big population, but not the costs...

To rank among the most powerful nations in the world, a state needs to
amass a large stock of resources, and to do that a state must be big
and efficient. It must produce high output at low costs. It must not
only mobilize vast inputs, but also produce significant output per
unit of input. In short, a nation’s power stems not from its gross
resources, but from its net resources—the resources left over after
subtracting costs.

In military affairs, production costs refer to the number of assets
needed to generate a given level of force and are mainly a function of
skill and technology—a military with skillful military personnel and
superior technology will use fewer resources to accomplish a mission
than a military with low skill and outdated technology...

Security costs are the price a government pays to police and protect
its citizens. The logic of deducting assets tied up in domestic law
enforcement and homeland security is simple: police and military units
that are bogged down chasing criminals, quelling rebellions, or
defending borders against foreign invasions cannot project power
abroad or create wealth at home. Measuring security costs thus
accounts for the fact that two nations with identical sets of gross
resources may, nevertheless, wield vastly different levels of power if
one country is surrounded by enemies and wracked by internal strife
whereas the other is stable and surrounded by allies...

The most popular indicator is GDP, which records the value of all
goods and services produced within a country over a fixed period of
time... Despite the widespread use of GDP, however, few people know
what it actually measures or recognize that it does not deduct
costs... GDP counts security spending as economic output. GDP does not
distinguish between guns and butter. It counts a 100 million gulag the
same as a $100 million innovation center. Hence, GDP fails to account
fully for the economic costs of domestic instability and international
conflict. In fact, GDP usually rises when a country mobilizes for
war...

Academics, too, typically measure the power of nations in terms of war
potential. As noted, more than 1,000 peer-reviewed studies have used
CINC, which combines data on military spending, troops, population,
urban population, iron and steel production, and energy consumption.
Measures of war potential, however, suffer from the same problem as
GDP: they are gross measures that do not deduct production, welfare,
or security costs. They count military units the same, regardless of
their level of skill or technology, the welfare costs of supporting
those units, or whether they are projecting power abroad or imposing
order at home. They also treat military spending and other inputs,
such as energy consumption or R&D spending, as if they were outputs,
so a country could substantially increase its CINC score by making
enemies and then raising a huge, oil-guzzling army to attack them.

How can scholars address the shortcomings of the standard indicators
of national power discussed above? The ideal solution would be to
deduct costs... The obvious problem with such an approach, however, is
that compiling balance sheets for every country is a painstaking
process that requires substantial data and time... [S]cholars need a
proxy for net resources that has data covering many countries going
back many decades. Does such an indicator exist?

In an oft-cited statistical reference, the historian Paul Bairoch
suggested that the 'strength of a nation could be found in a formula
combining per capita and total GDP.' Bairoch did not elaborate on this
point, but subsequent research supports his intuition: as noted,
scholars already believe that GDP represents the gross size of a
state’s economic and military output, and there is a large literature
showing that GDP per capita serves as a reliable proxy for economic
and military efficiency....

To create a rough proxy for net resources, I follow Bairoch’s advice
by simply multiplying GDP by GDP per capita, creating an index that
gives equal weight to a nation’s gross output and its output per
person. This two-variable index obviously does not measure net
resources directly, nor does it resolve all of the shortcomings of GDP
and CINC. By penalizing population, however, it provides a better
sense of a nation’s net resources than GDP, CINC, or other gross
indicators alone...

UK and China

<a name='ukch'/>

By standard indicators, China looked like a superpower in the
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. It had the largest GDP and
military in the world until the 1890s, and the second largest GDP and
military until the 1930s. During this time, however, China suffered a
“century of humiliation” in which it lost significant territory and
most of its sovereign rights, fighting at least a dozen wars on its
home soil — and losing every single one of them...

Clearly, Britain was more powerful than China during the Opium
Wars. This fact, however, is not captured by standard gross metrics:
China’s GDP and defense budget were more than twice the size of
Britain’s, and China’s army of 800,000 troops dwarfed the 7,000-troop
force that Britain sent to China to fight the wars.

China’s weakness is apparent only when costs are taken into account...
China suffered from greater production, welfare, and security costs
than Britain and thus had fewer resources to draw on in their many
disputes. Whereas Britain comes out far ahead of China when power is
measured by my proxy for net resources (GDP x GDP per capita), Britain
never overtook China in terms of GDP. Moreover, CINC suggests,
nonsensically, that China and Britain were equally matched in the
mid-nineteenth century and that China surpassed Britain in power in
1907, five years before the Chinese government collapsed.

China and Japan

China’s misery did not end with the Opium Wars. In the latter half of
the nineteenth century, Japan became determined not to suffer the same
fate as China, so it revamped its government, economy, and military
and began seizing territory and resources in East Asia. When China
tried to stand in the way of Japan’s imperialist plans, Japan went on
a rampage and quickly defeated China militarily in 1894 and forced it
to sign the Treaty of Shimonoseki, which ceded the Liaodong Peninsula,
Formosa, and the Pescadores to Japan. China also was forced to
recognize Korea’s independence—which effectively meant that Korea
would become a vassal of Japan, no longer of China—and to give Japan
commercial rights in China and a massive indemnity.

After pocketing these gains, Japan annexed Korea in 1910, and when
World War I broke out in 1914, Japan entered the war on the Allies’
side and seized the German-controlled city of Qingdao on China’s
Shandong Peninsula. Japan then presented China with the infamous
“Twenty-One Demands,” which basically called for China to become a
Japanese ward. The United States forced Japan to abandon its most
punishing demands, but Japan still extracted substantial territorial
and economic concessions from China.

A little more than a decade later, Japan expanded its presence in
northeast China, establishing a colony there called Manchukuo in 1932,
and bringing the Chinese provinces of Jehol and Hebei under Japanese
control in 1933. In 1934, the Japanese government declared that East
Asia was Japan’s sphere of influence and warned other great powers not
to defend China. Then in 1937, Japan launched a full-scale invasion.
By the time World War II began in Europe in 1939, Japan controlled
most of eastern China plus Taiwan and its outlying islands. Japanese
expansion stopped only when it ran afoul of the United States, which
decisively defeated Japan in 1945.

Obviously Japan was more powerful than China during their rivalry. Yet
by standard metrics, China appeared to have far greater power
resources. China’s population, GDP, and military were several times
larger than Japan’s, but Japan had greater net resources because it
was much more efficient than China ...


