# Private Government

E. Anderson

American public discourse is also mostly silent about the regulations
employers impose on their workers. We have the language of fairness
and distributive justice to talk about low wages and inadequate
benefits. We know how to talk about the Fight for $15, whatever side
of this issue we are on. But we don’t have good ways to talk about the
way bosses rule workers’ lives.  Instead, we talk as if workers aren’t
ruled by their bosses.  We are told that unregulated markets make us
free, and that the only threat to our liberties is the state. We are
told that in the market, all transactions are voluntary. We are told
that, since workers freely enter and exit the labor contract, they are
perfectly free under it: bosses have no more authority over workers
than customers have over their grocer.

Labor movement activists have long argued that this is wrong. In
ordinary markets, a vendor can sell their product to a buyer, and once
the transaction is complete, each walks away as free from the other as
before. Labor markets are different. When workers sell their labor to
an employer, they have to hand *themselves* over to their boss, who
then gets to order them around. The labor contract, instead of leaving
the seller as free as before, puts the seller under the authority of
their boss. Since the decline of the labor movement, however, we don’t
have effective ways to talk about this fact, and hence about what
kinds of authority bosses should and shouldn’t have over their
workers....

One issue.. continued to bother Paine near the end of his
life: widespread poverty...

[Thinker T. Paine] shows enormous faith in free markets and does not
display a trace of the anti-capitalist class conflict that
characterized nineteenth-century politics. [Why?] The answer is that
labor radicals saw access to self-employment as central to avoiding
poverty and attaining standing as equals in society. In the late
eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, the most radical workers
were not the emerging industrial proletariat, but artisans who
operated their own enterprises. As such, they were simultaneously
capitalists and workers...

<a name='elites'/>

In an economic context in which the self-employed find their status
and opportunities threatened by powerful institutions, it does not
make sense to pit workers against capitalists. Popular politics
instead pits the common working people against elites — that is,
whoever controls the more powerful institutions. It may also pit the
common working people against idlers ...

Paine’s low-tax, free-trade libertarian agenda made considerable sense
for an export-led agricultural economy facing high grain prices, as
was true for late eighteenth-century America. “The commerce by which
[America] hath enriched herself are the necessaries of life, and will
always have a market while eating is the custom of Europe.” Free
market wages were high in a country suffering from chronic labor
shortages, and in which self-employment was a ready option for nearly
all. When the bulk of the population is self-employed, pleading for
relief from state meddling is quite a different proposition than it
would be today. There is not much call for employment regulations if
there are few employees, and virtually all have a ready exit into
self-employment.

When no enterprises are large enough to have market power, there is no
need for anti-trust regulation.  When land is abundant and practically
free, land use and pollution regulations are hardly needed because
people are spread out and environmental effects (as far as people
understood at the time) minimal. When people can appraise the quality
of virtually all goods for sale on inspection, and nearly everyone
grows what they eat, there is little need for laws regulating the
safety of consumer goods. Arcane financial instruments could not bring
an economy to its knees in an era in which banking was primitive and
much of the economy was not monetized....

The Industrial Revolution shattered the egalitarian ideal of universal
self-government in the realm of production. Economies of scale
overwhelmed the economy of small proprietors, replacing them with
large enterprises that employed many workers.  Opportunities for
self-employment shrank dramatically in the course of the nineteenth
century, and have continued to shrink to the present day. The
Industrial Revolution also altered the nature of work and the
relations between owners and workers in manufacturing, widening the
gulf between the two...



