# Unrivaled

Michael Beckley

Russia - China

Russia and China currently maintain a “strategic partnership,” but
this relationship is unlikely to become a genuine alliance, because
the two countries share a 2,600-mile border and a desire to dominate
Eurasia—a goal that one side can accomplish only by subjugating the
other. Perhaps a shared hatred of the United States will bring Russia
and China together, but history suggests otherwise. At the start of
the Cold War, China initially aligned with the Soviet Union, but by
the 1960s the two Communist powers were literally at war with each
other, and in the 1970s China officially switched sides and aligned
with the United States.

Today, many Russian and Chinese strategists warn their respective
governments not to place too much faith in a sustainable partnership.
Foreign analysts come to similar conclusions. As one study explains:
“[Sino-Russian] cooperation is limited to areas where their interests
already overlap, like bolstering trade. In the parts of the world that
matter most to them, Russia and China are more rivals than allies.”

For every example of Sino-Russian cooperation, there is a
counterexample of competition. For instance, Russia sells weapons to
China, but it recently reduced sales to China while increasing sales
to China’s rivals, most notably India and Vietnam. Russia and China
conduct joint military exercises, but they also train with each
other’s enemies and conduct unilateral exercises simulating a
Sino-Russian war. The two countries share an interest in developing
Central Asia, but Russia wants to tether the region to Moscow via the
Eurasian Economic Union whereas China wants to reconstitute the Silk
Road and link China to the Middle East and Europe while bypassing
Russia. Collectively, these conflicting interests have placed Russia
and China “on a trajectory toward intensifying competition from latent
to emergent rivalry.”

North Korea - China

North Korea is a formal ally of China, but China stations three Group
Armies (roughly 150,000 troops) and a border defense brigade near
their 880-mile shared border. 136 China maintains twenty-four-hour
video and aerial drone surveillance of the border, has built bunkers
there to protect Chinese forces against nuclear and chemical blasts,
and has surged additional units to the border on several recent
occasions, including in 2010 when North Korea shelled South Korea’s
Yeonpyeong Island; in 2013 after the purge of Jang Song Thaek, a
high-ranking North Korean official and uncle of North Korea’s leader
Kim Jong Un; in August 2015 after an out- break of hostilities between
North and South Korea in the Korean demilitarized zone; and in 2017
when North Korea and the United States threatened each other with
nuclear annihilation...

Entrepreneurs in China have reported spending roughly 70 percent of
their time schmoozing with party members"..

Many Chinese college students describe their schools as 'diploma
factories,' where student-teacher ratios are double the average in
U.S. universities, cheating is rampant, students spend a quarter of
their time studying 'Mao Zedong thought' ...

American live in a less toxic environment. Air pollution is seven
times worse in China than in the United States and kills 1.6 million
Chinese citizens each year versus 200,000 Americans. Breathing
Beijing’s air is the equivalent of smoking forty cigarettes a day.

Whereas the United States can feed itself with only 1 percent of
its workforce in agriculture, China devotes 30 percent of its
workforce to farming—and still depends on food imports to feed its
population... Economic development is, at its core, a process of
structural change from agriculture to industry...

[O]ne-third of China’s GDP and 90 percent of its high-technology
goods are produced by foreign firms that have merely set up factories
in China to snap together components produced elsewhere. This
practice, known as 'export processing,' accounts for 90 percent of
China’s high-technology exports and 100 percent of China’s trade
surplus. On average, of every dollar an American consumer spends on an
item labeled 'Made in China,' 55 cents go for components and services
produced in the United States. In other words, more than half of the
content of 'Made in China' is American...

Since 2006, [CH] has tripled its spending on research and
development (R&D), employed more scientists and engineers than any
other country, and mounted the most extensive corporate espionage
campaign in history. So far, however, these measures have failed to
turn China into an innovation powerhouse...

According to a former Chinese biochemist turned whistle-blower,
'misconduct is so widespread among Chinese academics that they have
almost become used to it.' China now leads the world in retractions of
scientific studies due to fraud...

When Chinese firms imported foreign technology, they spent less
than 25 percent of the total cost on absorbing the technology, a share
far lower than the 200 to 300 percent spent by Korean and Japanese
firms when they were trying to catch up to the West in the 1970s. As a
result, many Chinese firms remain dependent on foreign technologies
and manual labor and have a rudimentary level of automation and
digitization...

[R]ecent internal investigations found that the PLA 'is riddled
with corruption and professional decay, compromised by ties of
patronage, and asphyxiated by the ever-greater effort required to
impose political control.' According to U.S. intelligence assessments,
'the level of corruption in the PLA at least equals, and probably far
exceeds, the level of corruption in the civilian economy.'...

<a name='taiwan'/>

[In a conflict with Taiwan] China would try to sink merchant
ships supplying Taiwan, but rigorous research suggests that the PLA
could sink only 1 to 6 percent of Taiwan’s shipping, and these results
are based on assumptions that heavily favor China... China might hope
that sinking a few merchant ships would deter others from supplying
Taiwan. Historically, however, shipping companies and privateers have
operated in wartime; in fact, many have volunteered to enter dangerous
areas so that they could charge higher premiums. For example, the lure
of profits kept seaborne commerce going throughout both world wars and
the 1980–88 Iran-Iraq War, wars in which shipping losses were several
times greater than what China could hope to inflict on Taiwan...

[Due to amphibious difficulties] China, therefore, probably could
not conquer Taiwan, even in the absence of U.S. intervention. Even if
China’s prospects are better than I have suggested, the PLA clearly
would have its hands full just dealing with Taiwan’s defenders.
Consequently, the United States would only need to tip the scales of
the battle to foil a Chinese invasion, a mission that could be
accomplished in numerous ways without exposing U.S. surface ships or
nonstealth aircraft to China’s [antiaccess-areadenial -A2/AD-] forces.
Specifically, American defense planners estimate that it would take
ten thousand to twenty thousand pounds of ordnance to decimate a PLA
invasion force on the beaches of Taiwan. The U.S. military could
deliver that payload many times over with a single B-2 bomber or an
Ohio-class submarine firing cruise missiles from an underwater
location hundreds of miles away. Alternatively, the United States
could unleash its attack submarines on the PLA invasion fleet...

China’s neighbors have developed their own A2/AD capabilities,
which can deny China sea and air control throughout most of its near
seas—even without U.S. assistance...

China .. cannot enforce its South China Sea claims. The sea is a
hotly contested zone, with five other countries laying claims to
portions of ​it. China has a more powerful military than these
Southeast Asian states, but they are closer than China to the areas of
the sea that they claim. In a war, Chinese forces would need to cycle
between the combat theater and a few bases hundreds of miles away in
southern China to refuel and reload, a commute that would severely
limit the amount of combat power China could sustain on the
battlefield. Southeast Asian forces, by contrast, could operate from
home bases bordering the combat theater and would have their full
arsenals at their disposal...

China’s neighbors have shown that they are willing to use
military force against China’s civilian vessels. Indonesia and
Malaysia, for example, announced in 2016 that they would sink foreign
vessels that fish or drill in their claimed waters in the South China
Sea, and Indonesia made good on this promise at least three times in
2016, firing on Chinese fishing vessels and blowing them up on
national TV—all while Chinese coast guard cutters watched from a
distance...

[T]he Filipino president, Rodrigo Duterte, has repeatedly
threatened to downgrade the U.S.-Filipino alliance, but he also has
authorized the United States to upgrade its military facilities in the
Philippines, ordered further reclamation on Philippine-held islands in
the Spratlys, instructed Filipino troops to 'fight to the death' to
defend these 95 ​islands against China, and threatened to raise the
Philippine flag himself on Thitu Island and to ride out to other
Chinese-claimed features on his jet ski and plant Philippine flags on
them too...

<a name="noko"/>

North Korea

US has no good options and only one nonhorrible option: deterrence.
North Korea will never give up its nuclear arsenal, which is its main
insurance policy against a U.S. or South Korean attack, and the U.S.
military cannot reliably destroy North Korea’s nuclear weapons or
conventional artillery before it has a chance to use them...

The U.S. Department of Defense estimates that a U.S.-North Korean war
would kill 20,000 people per day in South Korea alone, even if no
nuclear weapons were used. It also admits that the U.S. national
missile defense system only has a 50 percent chance of intercepting a
North Korean ballistic missile headed for the U.S. mainland. Given
these dire statistics, the United States should learn to live with a
North Korean nuclear capability..

Deterrence, however, does not mean doing nothing. The United States
should continue to make clear that it will “totally destroy” North
Korea if it attacks the United States or its allies or transfers
nuclear materials to other states or groups. To back up these threats,
the United States should integrate additional terminal and midcourse
interceptors to its national missile defense system and develop
boost-phase interceptors...

North Korea will never negotiate away its nuclear arsenal, but it
might accept limits on that arsenal in exchange for U.S. security
assurances.

<a name='ed'/>

Education

[C]ross-national data suggest that the American system of teacher
recruitment, training, and accountability has been put together
backward: it draws teachers from the bottom half of college classes;
gives them minimal training; and when teachers fail to improve student
performance, the government imposes rigid standards, hoping to do on
the back end what it failed to create on the front end. By contrast,
countries with top PISA scores, such as Japan, Singapore, and Finland,
do the opposite: they select teachers from the top third of college
classes, train them rigorously, and then give them the freedom and
time to hone their skills and share best practices with other
teachers. As Harvard’s Jal Mehta has shown, such methods largely
obviate the need for external accountability, because 'selection and
preparation on the front end makes extensive monitoring on the back
end unnecessary.'
