# The Da Vinci Code

It is interesing to note that right that after 9/11, first
best-selling story / viewpoint in US did not include a mad furor about
Islam, Middle-East, but it involved the Catholic Church, Renaissance,
and Medieval knights. Surely it did involve religion, but not Islam. I
am talking about the Da Vinci Code stories of course which brilliantly
tapped into a nation's psyche, its cultural fault line. DVC after 9/11
attacks reminded people about something they were familiar with: the
dictatorial mentality of Rome (or the Roman Catholic Church), and its
top-down hold on religion, knowledge and its symbols. The Western
world already had that fight; Geiseric, who destroyed the Romans was
seen a barbarian after all, he was a Christian whose only difference
from the Catholic "party line" was his belief that Jesus was not God.

If the "bad" in the story is Roman Catholics, then the "good" could
only have been something Medieval, and it was. Enter Templar "Knights"
whose job is to protect "the secret", the holy grail,
whatever. Knights belong to an era after Romans' fall, and the fall of
modernity today ushering in an era similar to Medieval Age is the
parallel here, that's why the knight as a symbol still "sells" in
movies, either in its original form, or in an endless stream of
superhero pictures. Iron Man? He has an armor, has a fief (his hi-tech
house), has squires (his little robots), is against Military
Industrial Complex (modern Rome).

In any case: DVC book and the movies are on code, the code being the
dividing line between Rome / Jesus, militarism / piece, mindless
centurion vs. the knight.

