# The Diminished President

Ross Douthat

For months, he’s positioned himself near the center of public opinion,
leaving Republicans to occupy the rightward flank [..] Yet the
president’s approval ratings have been sinking steadily for weeks,
hitting a George W. Bush-esque low of 40 percent [..] The
administration would no doubt blame this judgment on the steady stream
of miserable economic news. But it should save some of the blame for
its own political approach. Ever since the midterms, the White House’s
tactics have consistently maximized President Obama’s short-term
advantage while diminishing his overall authority. Call it the “too
clever by half” presidency: the administration’s maneuvering keeps
working out as planned, but Obama’s position keeps eroding.

--

We mentioned before that Obama is a Hesitant Creator (like Tony Blair
from UK, and Erdogan from Turkey) and this type is very scared of
losing, or to appear to be losing; this fear can push them to be
overtly accomodating on one hand, or unnecessarily competitive on the
other, and they tend to prefer small tactical moves to "save the day"
[1]. HC's have a massive chip on their shoulder for some reason which,
by the way they look and act, feels entirely out-of-place, but it's
there nevertheless.

On the other hand, let's not forget, Obama was elected to be anti-Bush
who was "the decider", the big-action, big-plan, bold-actin',
straight-shootin' hombre. Avoidance of the big, bad, bold could
somewhat be related to this. Public's perception might be playing a
role, the culture code for a US president is MOSES, according to this
code presidents should have a big direction, divide the sea, lead
their people to the "promised land". This is all bunch of cultural
stupidity of course, it has no intellectual value or connection to
what needs to be done. It simply has to do with manipulating voters,
effecting mindless morons, but can also partly explain Obama's decline
in poll numbers.

On Libya, I do not agree; noone wanted to see US attacking another
country on her own, so NATO involvement after an UN agreement for
protecting the rebels worked out for the better.

--

[1] The negatives of this type are least visible on Blair. 

