# The Milton Friedman Stimulus

London, May 2009. A small experiment involving thirteen homeless men
takes off. They are street veterans. Some of them have been sleeping
on the cold tiles of The Square Mile, the financial center of the
world, for more than forty years. Their presence is far from
cheap. Police, legal services, healthcare: the thirteen cost taxpayers
hundreds of thousands of pounds. Every year.

That spring, a local charity takes a radical decision. The street
veterans are to become the beneficiaries of an innovative social
experiment. No more food stamps, food kitchen dinners or sporadic
shelter stays for them. The men will get a drastic bailout, financed
by taxpayers. They'll each receive 3,000 pounds, cash, with no strings
attached. The men are free to decide what to spend it on [..]

A year after the experiment had started, eleven out of thirteen had a
roof above their heads. They accepted accommodation, enrolled in
education, learnt how to cook, got treatment for drug use, visited
their families and made plans for the future. [..] After decades of
authorities’ fruitless pushing, pulling, fines and persecution, eleven
notorious vagrants finally moved off the streets.

Costs? 50,000 pounds a year, including the wages of the aid
workers. In addition to giving eleven individuals another shot at
life, the project had saved money by a factor of at least 7. Even The
Economist concluded:

‘The most efficient way to spend money on the homeless might be to
give it to them.’ [..]

We tend to presume that the poor are unable to handle money. If they had
 any, people reason, they would probably spend it on fast food and cheap
 beer, not on fruit or education. This kind of reasoning nourishes the 
myriad of social programs, administrative jungles, armies of program 
coordinators and legions of supervising staff that make up the modern 
welfare state [..]. People have to ‘work for their money,’ we like to think. [..] The 
underlying message: Free money makes people lazy.

Except that it doesn’t. 

[..] Studies from all over the world drive home the [opposite] point:
free money helps. Proven correlations exist between free money and a
decrease in crime, lower inequality, less malnutrition, lower infant
mortality and teenage pregnancy rates, less truancy, better school
completion rates, higher economic growth and emancipation rates.














