# The Hydrogen Economy

Rifkin, 2003 

But what does “prepared” really mean? If the fossil-fuel era is
passing, what can replace it? A new energy regime lies before us whose
nature and character are as different from that of fossil fuels as the
latter was different from the wood-burning energy that proceeded it.

Hydrogen is the lightest and most ubiquitous element found in the
universe. When harnessed as a form of energy, it becomes “the forever
fuel.” It never runs out, and, because it contains not a single carbon
atom, it emits no carbon dioxide. Hydrogen is found everywhere on
Earth, in water, fossil fuels, and all living things. Yet, it rarely
exists free-floating in nature. Instead, it has to be extracted from
natural sources.

The foundation is already being laid for the hydrogen economy. In the
next few years, the computer-and-telecommunications revolution is
going to fuse with the new hydrogen-energy revolution, making for a
powerful mix that could fundamentally reconfigure human relationships
in the 21st and 22nd centuries. Since hydrogen is found everywhere and
is inexhaustible if properly harnessed, every human being on Earth
could be “empowered,” making hydrogen energy the first truly
democratic energy regime in historgy.

Hydrogen-powered fuel cells are being commercially produced for
installation in factories, offices, commercial buildings, and homes to
produce power, light, and heat. The major automakers have spent more
than $2 billion developing hydrogen-fuel-cell-powered cars, buses, and
trucks...

The first scientist of note to envision the full potential of hydrogen
was John Burden Sanderson Haldane, who later went on to become one of
the distinguished geneticists of the 20th century. In 1923, and still
in his twenties, Haldane gave a lecture at Cambridge University in
which he predicted that hydrogen energy would be the fuel of the
future. He then went on to outline, in a scientific paper, the case
for hydrogen and how it would be produced, stored, and used. His
notion was so revolutionary at the time that it was met with
incredulity by his peers within the academy. Yet, in its every
particular, his thesis was tantamount to a working blueprint of how
hydrogen would later be harnessed and exploited... He wrote that
“liquid hydrogen is weight for weight the most efficient known method
of storing energy, as it gives about three times as much heat per
pound as petrol.” ..

It was not until the oil crisis in 1973 that scientists, engineers,
and policymakers decided to take a second look at hydrogen as an
all-purpose form of energy. In that year, the first International
Conference on Hydrogen was held in Miami Beach, and the International
Association for Hydrogen Energy was established, along with a monthly
journal, the International Journal of Hydrogen Energy. A small group
of enthusiasts..began to proselytize within the energy industry,
hoping to win over converts to the hydrogen vision. T.  Nejat
Veziroglu, president of the association and a member of the group,
summed up the excitement at the time, exclaiming that hydrogen “was a
permanent solution to the depletion of conventional fuels, [and a]
permanent solution to the global environmental problem.” 


