# AR-15 - Part 1

The [gun] lobby’s fervent defense of military-style semi-automatic
weapons like the AR-15 seems motivated primarily by a desire to
protect the profits in the rapidly growing “modern sporting rifle”
segment of the industry [..]

[T]he AR-15 is not ideal for the hunting and home-defense uses that
the NRA’s Keene cited today. Though it can be used for hunting, the
AR-15 isn’t really a hunting rifle. Its standard .223 caliber
ammunition doesn’t offer much stopping power for anything other than
small game. Hunters themselves find the rifle controversial, with some
arguing AR-15-style rifles empower sloppy, “spray and pray” hunters to
waste ammunition. (The official Bushmaster XM15 manual lists the
maximum effective rate of fire at 45 rounds per minute.) As one hunter
put it in the comments section of an article on americanhunter.org, “I
served in the military and the M16A2/M4 was the weapon I used for 20
years. It is first and foremost designed as an assault weapon
platform, no matter what the spin. A hunter does not need a
semi-automatic rifle to hunt, if he does he sucks, and should go play
video games. I see more men running around the bush all cammo'd up
with assault vests and face paint with tricked out AR's. These are not
hunters but wannabe weekend warriors.”

In terms of repelling a home invasion—which is what most people mean
when they talk about home defense—an AR-15-style rifle is probably
less useful than a handgun. The AR-15 is a long gun, and can be tough
to maneuver in tight quarters. When you shoot it, it’ll
overpenetrate—sending bullets through the walls of your house and
possibly into the walls of your neighbor’s house—unless you purchase
the sort of ammunition that fragments on impact. (This is true for
other guns, as well, but, again, the thing with the AR-15 is that it
lets you fire more rounds faster.)

AR-15–style rifles are very useful, however, if what you’re trying to
do is sell guns. In a recent Forbes article, Abram Brown reported that
“gun ownership is at a near 20-year high, generating $4 billion in
commercial gun and ammunition sales.” But that money’s not coming from
selling shotguns and bolt-action rifles to pheasant hunters. In its
2011 annual report, Smith & Wesson Holding Corporation announced that
bolt-action hunting rifles accounted for 6.6 percent of its net sales
in 2011 (down from 2010 and 2009), while modern sporting rifles (like
AR-15-style weapons) accounted for 18.2 percent of its net sales. The
Freedom Group’s 2011 annual report noted that the commercial modern
sporting rifle market grew at a 27 percent compound annual rate from
2007 to 2011, whereas the entire domestic long gun market only grew at
a 3 percent rate.

As the NRA’s David Keene notes, a lot of people do use modern sporting
rifles for target shooting and in marksmanship competitions. But the
guns also appeal to another demographic that doesn’t get nearly as
much press—paranoid survivalists who worry about having to fend off
thieves and trespassers in the event of disaster. Online shooting
message boards are rife with references to potential “SHTF scenarios,”
where SHTF stands for “shit hits the fan”—governmental collapse,
societal breakdown. (Adam Lanza’s mother, Nancy Lanza, has been
described as “a gun-hoarding survivalist who was stockpiling weapons
in preparation for an economic collapse.”) An article on ar15.com
titled “The Ideal Rifle” notes that “the threats from crime,
terrorism, natural disaster, and weapons of mass destruction are
real. If something were to happen today, you would need to have made a
decision about the rifle you would select and be prepared for such an
event. So the need to select a ‘survival’ rifle is real. Selecting a
single ‘ideal rifle’ is not easy. The AR-15 series of rifles comes out
ahead when compared to everything else.” Depending on where you live,
it’s perfectly legal to stockpile weapons to use in the event of
Armageddon. But that’s a far different argument than the ones firearms
advocates have been using since the Newtown shootings.

