# dy / dx

[Answering the question is dy/dx a ratio?] Leibniz's notation is very
suggestive and very useful; even though derivatives are not really
quotients, in many ways they behave as if they were quotients [e.g the
Chain Rule). So, even though we write dy/dx as if it were a fraction,
and many computations look like we are working with it like a
fraction, it isn't really a fraction (it just plays one on
television). 

[But] the notation is so nice and so suggestive, we keep the notation
even though the notation no longer represents an actual quotient, it
now represents a single limit. In fact, Leibniz's notation is [so
useful] and better than Newton's notation that England fell behind all
of Europe for centuries in mathematics and science because, due to the
fight between Newton's and Leibniz's camp over who had invented
Calculus and who stole it from whom (consensus is that they each
discovered it independently), England's scientific establishment
decided to ignore what was being done in Europe with Leibniz notation
and stuck to Newton's... and got stuck in the mud in large part
because of it [..] It wasn't until [the mathematician] Hamilton that
they started coming back, and when they reformed math teaching in
Oxford and Cambridge, they adopted the continental ideas and notation.
Hah! This is so incredibly hard to believe.. England fell behind
because of some stupid notation? And am I trying to make an
underhanded comment on Brexit here? Maybe I am ! :)

Note: the excerpts above in no way subtracts from Newton's research,
his insights into mathematics. The man was simply a giant, the
originator of many, many groundbreaking new ideas. 








