# Fully Loaded

They are all white, all middle-aged, and all men. A few live openly
lavish lifestyles, but the majority fly under the radar. Rarely is
there news about them in the mainstream media or even the trade
press. Their obscurity would seem unremarkable if we were talking
about the biggest manufacturers of auto accessories or heating
systems. But these are America's top gunmakers—leaders of the nation's
most controversial industry. They have kept their heads down and their
fingerprints off regulations designed to protect their
businesses—foremost a law that shields gun companies from liability
for crimes committed with their products.

With this investigation, [we] set out to break through the opacity
surrounding the $8 billion firearms industry and the men who control
it. While the three largest companies disclose some financials, the
rest are privately held. Some are further shrouded by private-equity
funds or shell corporations based in overseas tax havens. We mined
manufacturing data and import statistics from the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF). We also examined obscure press
clippings, court documents, private industry reports, and tax records
from the Treasury Department. Together, the 10 companies we
investigated produce more than 8 million firearms per year for buyers
in the United States, accounting for more than two-thirds of the total
market. [..]

As the debate over gun laws has grown louder, sales have soared. In
the year following the massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, the three
largest gunmakers—Sturm Ruger, Remington Outdoor, and Smith &
Wesson—netted more than $390 million in profits on record sales.





