# As Bad As Ninja

[Ninja: No Income, No Job, No Assets. Term coined during subprime loan
era]

Mirella Casares has what used to be considered the keystone of
economic security: a job. But even a reliable paycheck no longer
delivers a reliable income.

Like Ms. Casares, who works at a Victoria’s Secret store in Ocala,
Fla., more and more employees across a growing range of industries
find the number of hours they work is swinging giddily from week to
week — bringing chaos not only to family scheduling, but also to
family finances.

And a new wave of research shows that the main culprit is not the
so-called gig economy, but shifting pay within the same job.

“Since the 1970s, steady work that pays a predictable and living wage
has become increasingly difficult to find,” said Jonathan Morduch, a
director of the U.S. Financial Diaries project, an in-depth study of
235 low- and moderate-income households. “This shift has left many
more families vulnerable to income volatility.” [..]

Stability is worth a lot to workers. On average, employees are willing
to give up a fifth of their weekly wage to avoid a schedule set by an
employer on a week’s notice, according to a field experiment where
workers were offered a range of alternative hours at different pay
levels. [..]

In the course of a year, for example, the monthly income of a
California family with one child that Mr. Morduch’s team tracked
jumped to $5,279 from as low as $1,175. (Strict ethics protocols
prohibit the release of participants’ names.) The husband supplemented
his steady $400-a-week salaried construction job with extra remodeling
work that could add from $323 to $1,588 a month to his total. His wife
picked up from zero to $1,824 a month from babysitting, and from
selling jewelry, clothing and flowers. [..]

Monthly expenses can pendulum as much as income, but the two do not
necessarily move in tandem. An analysis of 250,000 bank accounts by
the JPMorgan Chase Institute, a nonprofit research arm of the bank,
found that roughly 80 percent of households had an insufficient cash
buffer to manage the mismatch between income and expenses in a given
month.

Few people can comfortably ride out the inevitable financial bronco
ride. “Only households that earn $105,000 or more a year are secure
against the volatility they are exposed to,” said Diana Farrell, the
institute’s president and chief executive. “It’s not just about the
unemployed or the poor.”

Middle-income households, for example, saw their monthly expenses
deviate by nearly $1,300, the equivalent of a month’s rent or mortgage
payment. And one uh-oh expense — usually in the form of a medical, tax
or car repair bill — can wreck a family’s balance sheet for a year or
more.

Even a single month’s volatility can have a cascading effect. One
month, a family copes by using the money earmarked for, say, the
utility bill to cover the cost of replacing a busted water heater. The
next month, it’s the telephone company that goes unpaid as the family
struggles to make up the missed utility bill plus late fees and
interest — and so on. [..]

Ms. Waggoner’s work schedule depends on her ability to find care for
her 15-year-old son, who has epilepsy. So sometimes she works a
weekend at $17 an hour and sometimes three $15-an-hour weekdays. [..]

“Stable, predictable work schedules are essential to economic
security,” said Susan J. Lambert, a professor at the University of
Chicago who is studying new data supplied by the General Social
Survey, a respected national survey that began asking in-depth
questions about work schedules only last year.

The latest data shows that 41 percent of all hourly workers say they
are not given more than a week’s notice of their schedule; nearly half
have little or no say on their work hours. [..]

The ubiquity of the phenomenon has frequently been masked by annual
measures of income and spending or one-time snapshots of savings and
debt that fail to capture fluctuations week to week or month to
month. [..]

The number of Americans living comfortably or doing all right
financially has grown since the recession. Still, the new Fed report
found that 30 percent — roughly 73 million adults — say they are
finding it difficult to get by financially, or are just getting by.

To Mr. Morduch and his co-author, Rachel Schneider, the rise in income
volatility is an indication of how businesses in an era of advancing
technology and global competition have shifted risk onto employees.











