# The Next 100 Years

George Friedman

<a name='navies'/>

Navies

Having achieved the unprecedented feat of dominating all of the
world's oceans, the United States obviously wanted to continue to hold
them. The simplest way to do this was to prevent other nations from
building navies, and this could be done by making certain that no one
was motivated to build navies—or had the resources to do so. One
strategy, “the carrot,” is to make sure that everyone has access to
the sea without needing to build a navy. The other strategy, “the
stick,” is to tie down potential enemies in land-based confrontations
so that they are forced to exhaust their military dollars on troops
and tanks, with little left over for navies.

The United States emerged from the Cold War with both an ongoing
interest and a fixed strategy. The ongoing interest was preventing any
Eurasian power from becoming sufficiently secure to divert resources
to navy building. Since there was no longer a single threat of
Eurasian hegemony, the United States focused on the emergence of
secondary, regional hegemons who might develop enough regional
security to allow them to begin probing out to sea. The United States
therefore worked to create a continually shifting series of alliances
designed to tie down any potential regional hegemon. ...

<a name='china'/>

China

China is inherently unstable. Whenever it opens its borders to the
outside world, the coastal region becomes prosperous, but the vast
majority of Chinese in the interior remain impoverished. This leads to
tension, conflict, and instability... This is not the first time that
China has opened itself to foreign trade, and it will not be the last
time that it becomes unstable as a result. Nor will it be the last
time that a figure like Mao emerges to close the country off from the
outside, equalize the wealth—or poverty— and begin the cycle anew....

The vast majority of China's population lives within one thousand
miles of the coast, populating the eastern third of the country, with
the other two-thirds being quite underpopulated ...

The Europeans encountered a China in the mid-nineteenth century that
was going through one of its isolationist periods. It was united but
relatively poor. The Europeans forced their way in, engaging coastal
China in intense trade. This had two effects. The first was the
dramatic increase in wealth in the coastal areas that were engaged in
trade. The second was the massive increase in inequality between
China's coast and the poor interior regions. This disparity also led
to the weakening of the central government's control over the coastal
regions, and to increased instability and chaos. The coastal regions
preferred close ties to (and even domination by) the Europeans.

The period of chaos lasted from the mid-nineteenth century until the
Communists took power in 1949. Mao had tried to foment a revolution in
coastal cities like Shanghai. Having failed, he took the famous long
march into the interior, where he raised an army of poor peasants,
fought a civil war, and retook the coast. He then returned China to
its pre-European enclosure. From 1949 until Mao's death, China was
united and dominated by a strong government, but was isolated and
poor.