# Fake Physics

(About the usual multiverse bunk going around) The usual hype machine
is at work this week, with the usual mechanism:

University press offices and grant agencies put out irresponsible hype
about the work of one their faculty or grantees. In this case,
it’s Taming the multiverse: Stephen Hawking’s final theory about the
big bang from Cambridge, and Stephen Hawking’s last paper, co-authored
with ERC grantee Thomas Hertog, proposes a new cosmological theory, in
which universe is less complex and finite from the European Research
Council.

This gets distributed via services that either just reprint such press
releases (phys.orgor EurekAlert! in this case), or rewrite with added
hype (Stephen Hawking’s Final Theory About Our Universe Has Just Been
Published, And It Will Melt Your Brain).

Journalists then write stories based on these press releases, which
appear all over the place
(see here, here, here, here, here and here for example). At this
point, whatever was in the original press releases that tried to add
caveats or stick to reality gets abandoned, and a completely
misleading headline gets slapped on at a final level of the hype
machine.

Normally I try and defend the journalists involved, feeling that the
most irresponsible behavior is coming from the scientists
themselves. In this case, Hertog has a lot to answer for, but it’s not
Hawking’s fault since he’s dead. Any semi-competent journalist should
have realized that this is not news: the same stories had already been
written and published a month ago, and then conclusively debunked in
many places (see here, here and here for instance).

This is rather depressing, making one feel that there’s no way to
fight this kind of bad science, in the face of determined efforts to
promote fake physics to the public. It’s one thing for journalists to
be misled by a new variant on an old debunked story, but that they’re
getting misled again by exactly the  same story is a new development.

---

The thing is - mainstream media always used to follow fads like this
when they thought the origin of the story was genuine. If they deem a
source "trusted" they simply transmit the news coming from
it. According to Isaacson's book Einstein, starting from 1931 and for
two decades, Einstein kept announcing, theory after another, that he
finally solved the unified theory puzzle in physics, when in fact he
hadn't (theories fell apart after a few years of scrutiny), see pg
773. MM happily reported all of them, because the source was
Einstein. That is nothing new.

The reason MM is under the gun lately is that there is a diverse
non-mainstream alternative media now that hold them to account.

However, MM got worse on some aspects, worse than its historic average
even, because of its overly corporatized structure IMO. The way they
trumpet war nowadays is truly stomach churning. I dont think Vietnam
War had this much support in mainstream media, but the way CNN pushes
for war these days, you know, the network who made made it big during
first Iraq War, truly has no parallels in history. They really want to
sell this thing, just so they can have a correspondent over there with
that Middle East background where bombs are going off, the sky is
lightning up, creating an awesome visual spectacle. Would Walter
Cronkite ever go for that shit? I doubt it. But these buckers somehow
do. It all became a big show.

So same old same old in some aspects, worse in others.











