# US Polarization

Let's rewind to the beginning.. The Berlin Wall came down in 1989,
capitalism had won, the Earth would become flat, globalization
(i.e. Pax-Americana) would advance unimpeded, English as the
lingua-franca of the world etc.

These developments hit the Dems in US particularly hard. After their
loss to Bush 1,  and 1989, US Dems made the decision to mirror
Republicans almost exactly bcz they were "lost in the wilderness", so
they nominated the Southern Ronald Reagan for 1992. Clinton defined
the party around centrists (i.e. crypto-Republicans in the Democratic
Party). He created his contrasts only in execution (we'll deliver
prosperity better), and secondary issues such as guns, abortion,
climate.

Republicans were watching Dems closely, the wall came down, what will
they do? They saw in horror as the other side is taking up their
issues muscling them out of their base. They are thinking, I come back
home and find this guy sitting on my couch, watching my TV, eating my
cheetos.. This is not okay... They were like "you don't pitch a tent
in my front yard, mucker" and immediately went to war. They took a
look at the Dem's roster of issues, and they ticked off the secondary
ones almost immediately. Gun control -> second amendment. Abortion ->
protecting life. Environment -> Chinese hoax!

But that would not be enough. Since they could not fight "the new
Dems" on primary issues (they agreed after all) they had to fight them
on a more personal level. This is when things got real ugly. Clinton
waffles, he is a thief, a liar, a philanderer. In one case they even
indicated he was a murderer I think.. They were wrong on most of these
counts, right in some.. but it didn't matter.

However the first mistake is from the Democrats.. Sure 1989 was a big
deal, it is kinda understandable they did what they did, but insisting
on that mistake today is senseless. Look at where US is now: Reps are
not touching the secondary issues with a ten foot pole. Reagan was
pro-gun control. Richard Nixon founded the frickin EPA, but Reps today
are not going near gun control (even after all these deaths) and the
EPA chief is a guy who wants to abolish the EPA.

The secondary issues grew and grew due to neglect and they became much
bigger. Corporate Democrats are not getting anything for their
about-face - they are rarely elected, they even get muscled out of
their base now most recent example being a billionaire shitting in
gold toilets running on left (sorry "populist") issues and crushing
them. Dem failures gave Republicans a wide swath of ideological
landscape, they can freely roam about there, they can do right, left,
everything in the middle - all corporate Dems can do is sitting on
their ass and watch. They try to fight as being "examplar citizens"
with their token diversity initiatives token candidates, but it isn't
enough. It will never be enough. Until the ideological void is filled,
this "shitshow" will continue.

What did politicians think about the polarization during the 90s?

Take Bill Clinton himself, who was at the center of all that
shitstorm, a masterful politician, right? I've read all the bios,
autobios.. He didnt have a fucking clue. In one account he is with Bob
Dole, he asks him (bcz the issue is bothering him, a burning question
if you will) "is politics more clean or less clean today?". Dole says
"more clean". Then Bill says "then what is all this vitriol all
about?" [paraphrasing]. He had no idea. But the reason was staring all
of them in the face.

If you try to be "Republican-lite" trying to outdo the other guy in
their own game,  right after the fall of the Berlin Wall so the other
side is scared shitless thinking that this will become the new normal,
they'll fight you. They'll try to neutralize your secondary issues
(abortion, guns, environment), demean your character in place of
primary issues, and raise bunch of stink overall.

Now that I think about it, even today's excessive police violence is
the fault of these "centrists", corporate Democrats. All throughout
the 90s Dems wanted to demonstrate they could be "law-and-order" (code
word for jailing more black people), they could do all that like other
guy, and that pushed Reps further right, they
became more law-and-order to create that contrast. Now they want to
make mere mention of police brutality a taboo. All bcz Democrats would
not stick to their natural constituency.

Note: Clinton Presidency was an important marker in history .This was
the first Democratic president after the fall of the Berlin
Wall. Everyone watched closely what they would do.. Dems started
something with him, I guess it is fitting that era ending with another
Clinton.

<a name='codes'/>

Utilization of Culture Codes

How does the dynamics of culture code manipulation work? There is now
a one-party system in US, and I am a Dem (or Rep) and don't want real
issues to be talked about bcz I am for same effin thing as the other
guy, but I still need some issues to differentiate myself, so I decide
to press some buttons at cultural level. In US there is a cultural
tug-of-war between prohibition and "freedom", you just reframe the any
issue arounnd prohibition-freedom axis, and you got yourself a nice
little bruhaha.

Observe: now I am going to take a mother's health issue, and make it
hot-button. I say,

"Prohibit yourself from fucking (if not married). "

And

"If you do fuck, and have a baby, prohibit yourself from ending the
pregnancy".

Now the brain snaps to attention. No matter the issue, you lace it
with prohibition/freedom division, the cultural mind wants to take a
side on that. The analytical brain is overridden. Mission
accomplished. I just created the "abortion issue". Now you can have
ppl fight over these divisions, which puts you at the center of that
division, and corporations buying out US and the world (and Dems/Reps
not doing anything about it) are forgotten.

Guns are same way, this time prohibition is on the liberal side, cons
are for "freedom", gay/straight, drugs/no-drugs, masks/no-masks,
stay-at-home/not, you could go on... Notice how all these issues are
conventiently formed around the same axis. Prohibit self. Or freeeee
yourself. Freeeedomm.


