# Centrifugal Effect

After more than two years of conflict, Syria is breaking up. A 
constellation of armed groups battling to advance their own agendas are 
effectively creating the outlines of separate armed fiefs. As the war 
expands in scope and brutality, its biggest casualty appears to be the 
integrity of the Syrian state [..].

“We’re going to keep increasing the pressure on the Assad regime and 
working with the Syrian opposition,” Mr. Obama said. “We are going to 
keep working for a Syria that is free of Assad’s tyranny.” 

But as evidence of massacres and chemical weapons mounts, experts and 
Syrians themselves say the American focus on change at the top ignores 
the deep fractures the war has caused in Syrian society. Increasingly, 
it appears Syria is so badly shattered that no single authority is 
likely to be able to pull it back together any time soon [..]. 

“It is not that Syria is melting down — it has melted down,” said Andrew
 J. Tabler, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East 
Policy and author of “In the Lion’s Den: An Eyewitness Account of 
Washington’s Battle with Syria.”[..]

Fueling the country’s breakup are the growing brutality of fighters on 
all sides and the increasingly sectarian nature of the violence [..]  

Analysts say this shift in the nature of the violence will have a 
greater effect on the country’s future than territorial gains on either 
side by making it less likely that the myriad ethnic and religious 
groups that have long called Syria home will go back to living side by 
side. As the momentum seesaws back and forth between rebels and the 
government, the geographic divisions are hardening [..]. 

Mr. Assad has also come to rely more heavily on paramilitary militias 
that draw largely from his Alawite sect and other minorities who 
consider him a bulwark against the rebels’ Islamism. More recently, 
fighters from Lebanon’s Shiite militant group Hezbollah have added extra
 muscle, especially in the border region near the town of Qusair, an 
area dotted with Shiite and Sunni villages that has seen intense 
fighting in recent months. 

This new focus on tightening his grip on the country’s center suits Mr. 
Assad fine, said Abdulrahim Mourad, a Lebanese politician and former 
Parliament member who visited Mr. Assad in Damascus last month. “He told jokes, was very funny,” Mr. Mourad said. “He was very relaxed and relieved.” [..]

“The only real outcome I see in the next 5 to 10 years is a series of 
cantons that agree to tactical cease-fires because they are tired of the
 bloodletting,” said Mr. Holliday, the analyst with the Institute for 
the Study of War. “That trajectory is in place, with or without Assad.” 















