# Review of “Who Owns the Future?” By Jaron Lanier

As he has done in the past, Lanier celebrates technology as a tool of
 creativity [..] but he confesses that creating a “mass market for
 ordinary people” rests on the shaky assumption that the masses “have
 something to offer.”

No doubt there will be new kinds of accountants for nonmonetary 
transactions in whatever comes after Second Life, as well as more 
digital interface designers, but the massive shortcomings of one key 
sector – education – to retool populations for an age of digital 
networking remain mysteriously unaddressed in this book. Instead, the 
solution to the hegemony of “Siren Servers” is more such servers, but 
ones operating on the model of individual commercial rights he 
advocates.

There is also a strong role for government in guaranteeing access to 
data and digital identity protection, and also a digital central bank to
 be a financial backbone. But isn’t this the same Congress that just 
tried to pass the Stop Online Piracy Act? And would a digital Ben 
Bernanke simply intoxicate the masses with trillions of zero-interest 
credits?

--

Great review.There are a lot of nuances Lanier is missing; First, the
Net allows unexploited / unexpected / accidental talent, "the few", to
put their stuff out there by-passing all the second wave filters,
which on its own, is revolutionary enough (the kicker: _everyone_ has
such talent in some shape of form). Guy sitting at home watching
YouTube videos became an arms trafficking expert and exposes
trafficking in Syria. From YouTube videos.

But the masses, on the general kinds of things that the masses can do,
for themselves and others, will cause a lot of change through this
ultra-democratized medium as well. We are only seeing the tip of the
icerberg here.
















