# Week 32

People Love Craigslist

Thanks to Michael Nielsen's share, I read an article titled "What Can
We Learn From Mess". I'd like to add few thoughts of my own on this
subject.

I know a woman who uses, likes Craigslist a lot. Well, correction; She
uses and loves Craigslist a lot. I am using the word love here, and we
need to think about why that is, and how it came to be. It's not an
easy relationship to form with your customer, especially on the
Internet where people can theoretically desert you in seconds, rather
than hours or days.

Some speculation:The spartan look and feel of Craigslist could be a
factor in this loyalty... That, combined with the fact that Craigslist
carries so much data inside it could entice a user who like to
discover things (who doesn't?) to use the system more.. Isn't that the
rage these days, in movies, TV shows? Find some artifact! Combine this
symbol with that one.. Push the button ... at this time.. Wake the
Transformer.. whatever. It's like saying, here is a magic wand (very
simply looking wand essentially just a stick, you can wave it around),
but if you know how to use it, you can do great many things with it.

The domain Craigslist carries data for could also be a factor. Data
domain is literally everything. It's life. It's like, mastering
Craigslist means mastering life. That is one way of looking at
it. Searching the Internet on Google is also on the same wavelength,
but Craigslist actually connects people willing to do some service for
someone else, so looking for something there is more like looking for
a connection. It is livelier.

Hence, the bottomline could be this; sharing the most recent data
about people, their life, events is king. That is why I also have
great hopes for new augmented reality apps that started showing up on
Android phones, and lately on iPhones. It's about real people, real
data, and it is uptodate. Point it to some building, you can receive
all "likes" people had on this building, that site, this statue,
etc. It gives people more flexibility, freeing up their time, which
means better productivity, happier, more satisfied customers at the
push of a button.

---

Another example of how 3W is changing another aspect of life; With the help of new technologies, people organize in different ways, and all of these ways are on-demand, decentralized managed through an electronic hub, which, by all intents and purposes, easily replacable and replicable. Enter GPeerReview.

Traditional journals provide two services:

Find capable reviewers who give feedback, and recommend whether or not
the journal should endorse a paper.

Publish papers by making them easily accessible to other researchers.

With modern technology, it is no longer necessary for these two
services to be tied together. Authors should be able to:

Publish now and seek endorsements later.

Seek any number of endorsements.

GPeerReview attempts to makes it easy for authors to seek
post-publication endorsements of their works. 

---

Well or to watertube.. It's called Poparazzi. It looks pretty fun.

![](ski.jpg)

---

Advertising. 60s. Politics. Big City. Put it all together, you get one
of the hottest dramas in TV land today; Mad Men. The show revolves
around a successful advertising guru Don Draper, a character created
specificaly to reflect on a society torn between two waves. Through
Draper, we witness life in an economy whose main actors are now white
collar workers. Advertisers "dream up" new ways to sell, they analyze
society, try to exploit its wishes, its language, past. It is no
coincidence the show starts off with Draper working on a challenging
project, in a restaurant no less, on a napkin. Meanwhile he strikes a
conversation with his waiter, who is black, he is asking him why likes
certain product he uses and what would it take him to switch to his
customers' product. Right there, we have "mind work" which can be
achieved in a restaurant, on a napkin (mobile work), and en
environment that brings, needs to bring, all aspects of society
together; Draper is talking to a black man. The fact that this is seen
a "taboo" back then is painfully made aware to us through a restaurant
manager who chides the waiter for "talking too much" to a (white)
customer.

But bigger forces are at play here. For Draper, the waiter is not
black, nor white; he is a potential customer. His wishes, preferences
are important to him, and once we hear them, we understand they are
not much different from our's after all. The man is a human. He has a
wife, kids, and money he can spend. We get to know one another,
understand the world little better.

First episode is full of similar storylines. A faster paced economy
brought all aspects of society together who never came into contact
before. A Jewish businesswoman, an owner of a department store in
Manhattan, has bigger plans for her father's business. Her father sold
to Jewish people alone, she wants to sell to everyone. All kinds of
prejudices come to surface during their first meeting; Male / female,
majority / minority relations are all there in bare display.

But most interesting character is, still, the show's intended focus,
Draper. He is fairminded and least prejudiced among anyone around
him. He is respectful to women as much a man in that age can be, is
open minded, and overall, curious about things around him which is why
he is probably successful in his business to begin with. While his
co-workers are on womanizing, ethnobashing, caveman bonding trips, he
talks to people, wants to understand what makes them tick. He is an
ideal of sorts, someone safe to associate with, and through him we
start exploring the beginnings of a world that carried much of the
seeds of what we are still grappling with today. Drape is torn; first
part of the first episode we are made to believe he is some sort of
fast living bachelor, drinking, smoking, sleeping with women, but
before the show closes, we find out he is married, has two kids,
living in suburbia in a post-war, 2. wave industrial nuclear family
setting that is awefully familiar to us.. Drape has two lives, and it
is perfectly fitting that his character is created at such a crossroad
in a society who is leaving something behind and walking towards
unfamiliar territory. The starting sequence of a man falling through
high-rise buildings says it all: The show is about post-modern man
looking for his soul.

---

Construct a Building One Slice At a Time

I am convinced that in near future, buildings will be constructed by
spraying the necessary materials for a building one milimeter slice at
a time; which, once combined, will form a building. This is not some
scifi vision either. 3D printing which involves materials such as
stainless steel is already here. The next step for constructing
something such as a building only needs an increase in scale, and
finding some way of cleverly combining materials that make up a
building. Man I saw the sh.t in my mind's eye: A huge horizontal, flat
builder bed with huge tanks of liquid raw materials hooked up to it;
the architects feed their CAD design into this machine, and it just
starts "building".

What happens to construction workers?

Well f..k the construction workers. There is no need for human driven
mindless building in this setup; the whole thing goes from design ->
construction .. automagically.

Da future. Better believe it.

---

An interesting disagreement in evolutionary theory is about our
distant ancestors: Some claim we have an aquatic past, meaning our
real ancestors lived in water, that we did actually descend from the
land apes. This theory sounds interesting and plausable in many
levels. Apparently skills such as mastering speech requires concious
control of your breath, which land apes cannot, but a creature living
in water would need to. There is also the issue of nakedness; land
based evolutionary theory suggests that we shed our hair once we lost
the use for it - however aquatic theory says all naked animals, such
as rhinos, elephants have an aquatic past, and if our evolutionary
path followed their pattern, it would mean our ancestors did not shed
their hair, the claim is we never had it to begin with. In water hair
would be of no use.

Aquatic ape theory has been brought to conciousness by Alister Hardy,
and popularized further by Elaine Morgan. Her TED talk can be watched
here. It's an interesting idea. I have to say, seeing creatures like
Michael Phelps, I am tempted to aggree with this view.. The man is a
fish! :)

---

