# America's Secret War

George Friedman

Saudis

When U.S. forces first deployed in Saudi Arabia in order to face down
Iraq, they were confined to bases. The reason was that the Saudis were
afraid that public awareness of the American presence on their soil
would generate a massive reaction. On one rare occasion when
U.S. troops went off base, a small group visited a Saudi coffee
shop. There they were taunted by Saudis, who told them that the Saudi
government had merely hired the U.S. Army, just as they hired
engineers or servants. The U.S. soldiers responded vigorously, and
were later brought up on charges.

The incident resulted in a sharp encounter between Norman Schwarzkopf
and the Saudi command. Schwarzkopf demanded that the Saudis take steps
to stamp out the perception, encouraged by the government, that the
Americans were simply hired mercenaries under Saudi control. What
Schwarzkopf and the rest of the U.S. government didn't grasp is that
the story was spread among the Saudi population because the Saudi
government harbored a desperate fear: that the presence of U.S. forces
in Arabia would trigger an uprising. In fact it did generate a rising,
but not an immediate one. It triggered Al Qaeda.[..]

[After 9/11] The Saudis simply did not want to participate in the
American war [against al Qaida] to any extent that would have made a
difference. This startled the United States, which believed it had
saved the Saudis during Desert Storm. It was the culmination of a
policy that had been evolving for a decade. The United States needed a
way to pressure the Saudis into doing what the Americans needed—even
though it was not in the Saudi interest. The United States pressed,
and the Saudis deflected [..]

The central dilemma the U.S. now faced was how to get the Saudis into
the war. The problem was that the Saudis did not think the United
States was going to win this war. They understood the region and their
own country far better than the Americans, and the United States did
not terrify the Saudis nearly as much as Al Qaeda did. The Saudis had
heard U.S. rhetoric in the past and were not impressed. Somehow the
U.S. had to demonstrate just how serious and frightening it could be,
and then be in a position to put massive military and political
pressure on the Saudis.

This was the origin of the U.S. decision to invade Iraq.[..] 

<a name='china'/>

China

Donald Rumsfeld had said, just before September 11, that the
United States was going to reorient its entire defense policy to focus
on Asia—which meant to counter the growth of Chinese power.  This was
the last thing China needed.

In that sense, September 11 was a welcome relief for China, since it
diverted American attention and relieved pressure on China. At the
same time, China had a serious Islamist problem of its own. Xinjiang
province was predominantly Muslim, and a significant rebellion was
under way there, which included bombings around China.  China wanted
to weaken the Islamists but didn't want to see Americans dominating
its western frontiers or increasing its power dramatically. As much as
it welcomed the relief following September 11, it understood that
U.S. victory in the war on Al Qaeda would leave China extremely
vulnerable to U.S. power...

<a name='france'/>

France

Ever since Charles de Gaulle, France had been deeply concerned about
its declining position in the world. France saw the rise of American
power, particularly after the end of the Cold War, as a threat to its
national interest—in particular, to its critical economic and
strategic interests in the Middle East. France had absolutely no
desire to see an increase in American power. It had a national
strategy of blocking the rise of American power in any way possible....

France saw the U.S. intention to invade Iraq as both a threat and a
golden opportunity. The threat was that France would be further
marginalized in the region and become even less significant globally.
The opportunity was that the threat would allow France to galvanize
Europe into changing from an economic unit into a more unified
political unit with a foreign policy defined by France. ...

In tandem with the Germans, France turned up the pressure to create a
European consensus. With the two major powers united, and public
opinion aggressively antiwar, the French plan seemed
irresistible. Pressure built toward a unified statement throughout
January 2003, as the American buildup surged and the sense of
impending war intensified. Oil prices had risen dramatically, and
economists were claiming that the war would result in economic
calamity.  The United States appeared to have played directly into the
hands of the French on January 22, when Donald Rumsfeld made a speech
in which he referred to France and Germany as “the Old Europe.” What
he appeared to be saying was that France and Germany represented moral
decay and weakness.  It was, in particular, a dig at the French,
reminding them of their failure in World War II and before.

Rumsfeld's speech appeared to be a massive blunder, typical of
Rumsfeld, in which his intemperate comments would simply further
enrage European politicians and public opinion. In fact, it was
carefully considered and intended to take advantage of a process that
U.S. diplomats and intelligence had been noting carefully, but had
been overlooked by the media: the growing concern in Europe about a
Franco-German axis, allied with Russia, dominating European foreign
policy...

On January 30, 2003, an extraordinary editorial appeared in The Wall
Street Journal. In it, eight European countries publicly broke with
the Franco-German bloc and endorsed the American position on Iraq.
They were: Spain, Portugal, Italy, the United Kingdom, Denmark,
Hungary, Poland, and the Czech Republic. This was a huge chunk of
Europe, and soon after, almost all of Eastern Europe had turned
against the French.  In the end, the only countries siding with
France, Germany, and Russia were Belgium, Sweden, Greece, and
Belarus. This was not an insignificant bloc—France, Germany, and
Russia were a large chunk of Europe—but it was a group of leaders
without followers. American diplomacy and geopolitical reality had
effectively split the European bloc down the middle.
