# Cultures, Identities, Something Dash Something Americans, Immigrants

Arriving to US, one of the biggest shocks was expecting to find
Americans in US, but finding bunch of Italians, Polish, Irish and
Germans. It seemed people were obsessed with their ethnic
compositions, "I am 20% Irish, 3% Polish, 30% Italian, and .." would
say one, while I was trying to compute how those percentages could
come about arithmetically, another would jump and say 50%/%50%
German-Irish bitch! 

I believe this movement came from a want to handle the diversity
triggered by Third Wave changes, but went haywire. Combined with some
other movements, this could be how US arrived to being non-American
Americans, to being Polish, Irish, Italians.. I must heard from so
many that they were Italians at some point that when I met someone in
NY and the guy said "I am Italian", even tho I could tell he was off
the boat I paused for a second. Sensing my hesitation the friend
helpfully continued, leaning forward for better emphasis, "*from
Italy*". The subtext was clear: not from *New Jersey*. He probably was
shocked as I was seeing so many of his "countrymen" in US who were
clearly not like him.

So maybe US wanted to move away from sights of extreme assimilation,
then developed "national subgroups", Scottish, Polaks, ..  who become
kind-of "ambassadors" of their respective "countries" which do not
exist, whose real counterpart they clearly do not belong, but act as
if they are.

Because the other strange thing is, US assimilates extremely
well. F. Zakaria, an Indian immigrant, says of his children he
struggles to have them hold on to a few things of the old country,
they are by now completely American. Clotaire Rapaille, the creator of
the *Culture Code* tells a story of his son, who, when they were out
couch shopping together and CR wanted to buy the couch on display,
would "freak out" and say "awwww dad, do you know how many asses sat
on that couch?". Rapaille, ever the cultural analyzer, finds this an
extremely American, and as an off-the-boat French something he would
never say.

Maybe because assimilation is successful, faux Ambassadorship is also
needed to take the sting off the assimilation.

People need to get real tho: according to Rapaille's theory, culture
codes form until age 7, so whichever country a person was in during
this time, they are from that country. If person was in US, it doesn't
matter his parents were Polak, he looks streotypical Polak - he is not
a f-king Polak. I used to see tigga in US telling me they tigga. You
are not tigga. Be part of where you belong. We don't want you here.

Today

The faux ambassadorship culture created strange dynamics, ppl who
belong to these "countries" are expected to perform, expected to be
like ppl of their respective lands when these poor sods are clearly
not. So they cling on weird streotypes which even the real versions of
their faux identities do not hold on to anymore.

There is no denying people might have been attacked, or discriminated
against due to ethnic outward differences. But in those cases it's
their job to remind others they are citizens, not cower behind a faux
identity, some shoddy copy. Also was the attack just plain dumb?  "In
high-school they called me bunch of names with my ethnicity". They
call everyone names in high school (many Americans are traumatized in
high-school). Whatever is different, they'll pick on it. Someone I
know whose name, say rhimes with Beggio, was named Beg, Beggerboy,
Bag-over-your-moms-head, Beck, Dick (??) and it goes progressively
worse after that. Beg was ethnically German-Scottish. Everyone gets
it.

Additions

1)

What happens to older, pilgrim level Americans in this mix?  They have
no "real" ethnicity to fall back on, it is so far back they don't
remember, they can't all of a sudden to claim to be ethnically
British, they hem and haw and end up with a version of discoverer,
which kind of harks back to the migrant which arrived to the shores of
America I guess, and busily start "discovering" the new "cultural
subcountries" around them, which also fans the flame of this weird game
show. "Why don't you be more Irish so I can discover you!".

Of course black people need to be more "distinctly black" now,
changing, reforming the language along the way, bad becomes good, good
becomes bad, doing the biznitch, with the shiznit. Lots of prose, lots
of great art - but underneath it all, the message, the delivery
remains American. Ssshh, keep quiet on that.

2)

If culture is shared, is imprinted even, and the root of US culture is
Protestanism, that means even the Catholics of US would act Protestan
whether they like it or not. This is in fact true. The faux
ambassadorship, acting out streotypes aside, ppl act and think like
Protestans. Huntington talked about this in *Who Are We?*.

3)

We now arrive at the mystery that is the Governator - the ultimate
foreigner... So foreign in fact that after you watch his movie, you
think the actor probably goes back home to a mountain top to be with
his other foreign friends, other barbarians, or Terminators, or
whatever. Ahnuld kept this act going for decades now (noone holds on
to an accent unless they want to), and it has been hilarious. He is of
course Germanic in culture being outside US before age 7.

4)

Some people's internal make-up is so strongly in certain direction
that no matter the culture they were born into, they may not belong to
that culture. These edge cases do happen.  In this case Rapaille's
answer is simple: buy a plane ticket, and leave.

5)

The cultural subnations are fake. It takes a lot of make-belief,
acting, subterfuge to bring them to life, on real world and on
screen.

Many do do that, with great effort, but then they invariably fall into
the firing line of comedians. A comedian likes nothing more than to
pick apart phoniness, the artificial, the fake, so they go at it with
abandon. Let's not forget a comedian is the guardian of normal, the
guy outside the village looking in, watching all the rituals, sheep
fucking that goes on in there. The faux ambassadors get it from them
the most, and rightfully so.

6)

In *Raw* E. Murphy has tells a story where he gets out from *Rocky 3*
and sees "Italians", all proud, acting tough, hollering at blacks. So
many things are wrong here. The black people are not the ambassadors
of some "Black Nation" whose man was beaten on screen. Stallone is not
Italian. This is very interesting actually, Stallone isn't even
streotypical Italian. Do we ever see him sitting around with others at
a dinner table with others on cinema, backslapping, telling jokes
"then I said.. then I said.."  while others say "get the f--k outa
heeereeee"? No, we see him in space, or jumping over hills, or in
jungle, hunting, etc. Stallone acts as nomadic, Protestan
American. Even when he receives blessings from a priest, it is done
remotely, while he is running in *Rocky*.

7)

Fake subnations and their ambassadors helped create a lot of comedy,
and in the positive, even maybe a "safe-space" for people (which I
argue needs to be abandoned). The act can go too far though to the
point where now "a black kid with a book is called acting white" as
Bama said correctly, for once. I'd rather not have the comedy than a
single black kid having to hear those words.

8)

Another aspect of this whole thing is, if there is an unconformtable
topic talking about it, through comedy, making light of it as much as
possible, so it is not talked about uncomfortably in other parts of
society. This too would be very American. But the act can start having
a life of its own, impinge on other parts of culture. Watch out.

9)

"Does religion matter for subcultures? No. Rituals do not create
culture. Culture has to do with codes, embedded in emotional brain
which are transmitted through osmosis, and they effect
*decisions*. Putting a funky hat on, playing with some beads, mumbling
some nonsense is not culture.

Look at this [person](https://youtu.be/ttBWXH-ihL0). She is right,
where you are born matters. She is French. People who tell her
otherwise need to shut the flack up, and she should remind them of
that.

Parents - stop telling children abt their "home country". They ain't
iyou, they'll never be you. You made that decision for them when you
moved your punk ass to where you are now from your (very likely)
shithole country. They won't belong to your original homeland just for
the virtue of being your children.

10)

Which brings us to Jews. I heard Netanyahu say once [parap] "Jews came
back to their homeland and we are proud to maintain our culture. We
were never assimilated".

You were, actually. With the exception of maybe those Hassidic guys,
or ones who truly isolated themselves, the rest were assimilated.. So
what "came back" to the "homeland" were not Jews but Germans,
Americans, etc. How the f--k would u beat Arabs otherwise? German,
European know-how, organization ability, culture beat them, not your
funky hats. And now there are Jews from Moscow, St. Petersburg and
guess what? They are Russians.

The trick Jewish people did best was, like the French lady's example
above, the parents, and parent's parents managed to keep the
"homeland" idea alive. Then, sold on this idea, some went "back" when
time was appropriate. But, in a way, they were fooled.

Now together in the new country, as any group can reach some kind of
merger, the new arrivals are creating a new culture (people born into
it would become automatically part of that culture). Not necessarily
ancient Jewish per se, but a combo of all nationalities who arrived
there, Russians, Polaks, Germans, etc. enmeshed with the realities of
the region. In a way they are much like United States. No wonder
Israelis like US so much.

Related: [The Culture Code](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2014/06/the-culture-code.html)
