# A Post-Scarcity World

Murray Bookchin

We normally live completely immersed in the present—to such a degree,
in fact, that we often fail to see how much our own social period
differs from the past—indeed from a mere generation ago. This
captivity to the contemporary can be very insidious. It may shackle us
unknowingly to the most reactionary aspects of tradition, be they
obsolete values and ideologies, hierarchical forms of organization, or
one-sided modes of political behavior. Unless our roots in
contemporary life are broadened by a rich perspective, they may easily
distort our understanding of the world as it really is, as well as its
rich potentialities for the future.

For the world is changing profoundly, more profoundly than many of us
seem to recognize. Until very recently, human society developed around
the brute issues posed by unavoidable material scarcity and their
subjective counterpart in denial, renunciation and guilt. The great
historic splits that destroyed early organic societies, dividing man
from nature and man from man, had their origins in the problems of
survival, in problems that involved the mere maintenance of human
existence.* Material scarcity provided the historic rationale for the
development of the patriarchal family, private property, class
domination and the state; it nourished the great divisions in
hierarchical society that pitted town against country, mind against
sensuousness, work against play, individual against society, and,
finally, the individual against himself.

Whether this long and tortuous development could have followed a
different, more benign, course is now irrelevant.  The development is
largely behind us... Be that as it may, our position in that historic
drama differs fundamentally from that of anyone in the past. We of the
twentieth century are literally the heirs of human history , the
legatees of man's age-old effort to free himself from drudgery and
material insecurity. For the first time in the long succession of
centuries, this century—and this one alone—has elevated mankind to an
entirely new level of technological achievement and to an entirely new
vision of the human experience.

We of this century have finally opened the prospect of material
abundance for all to enjoy—a sufficiency in the means of life without
the need for grinding, day-to-day toil. We have discovered resources,
both for man and industry, that were totally unknown a generation
ago. We have devised machines that automatically make machines.  We
have perfected devices that can execute onerous tasks more effectively
than the strongest human muscles, that can surpass the industrial
skills of the deftest human hands, that can calculate with greater
rapidity and precision than the most gifted human minds. Supported by
this qualitatively new technology, we can begin to provide food,
shelter, garments, and a broad spectrum of luxuries without devouring
the precious time of humanity and without dissipating its invaluable
reservoir of creative energy in mindless labor. In short, for the
first time in history we stand on the threshold of a post-scarcity
society.

When cybernated and automatic machinery can reduce toil to the near
vanishing point, nothing is more meaningless to young people than a
lifetime of toil. When modern industry can provide abundance for all,
nothing is more vicious to poor people than a lifetime of poverty.
When all the resources exist to promote social equality, nothing is
more criminal to ethnic minorities, women and homosexuals than
subjugation. These contrasts could be extended indefinitely, covering
all the issues that have produced the social agony of our era.

In attempting to uphold scarcity, toil, poverty and subjugation
against the growing potential for post-scarcity, leisure, abundance
and freedom, capitalism increasingly emerges as the most irrational,
indeed the most artificial, society in history. The society now takes
on the appearance of a totally *alien* (as well as alienating)
force. It emerges as the "other," so to speak, of humanity's deepest
desires and impulses. On an ever-greater scale, potentiality begins to
determine and shape one's everyday view of actuality, until a point is
reached where everything about the society—including its most
"attractive" amenities—seems totally insane, the result of a massive
social lunacy.

