# Getting Your Own House In Order

Turkish, Syrian, and Iraqi Kurds (at least the ones that live in
Iraq’s northwest, across the borders with Turkey and Syria) are
linguistically united. These Kurds speak the Kurmanchi variety of
Kurdish, as opposed to Iranians and northeastern Iraqi Kurds. They
speak the Sorani variety of Kurdish, which is more different from
Kurmanchi than Portuguese is from Spanish.

Syria’s Kurds would likely turn to Turkey for support [..] This presents Turkey with a crucial choice. It has traditionally been
 hostile to an independent Kurdish state or entity anywhere in the 
region, lest its own Kurdish population make similar demands. But its 
calculus could be changed by the prospect of chronically unstable Sunni 
Arab neighbors [..]

In light of all these compelling reasons to support an independent 
Kurdish entity in Syria, Turkey may be convinced to reverse its 
long-standing opposition to any Kurdish autonomy in the region. But one 
major roadblock stands in the way of Turkey capitalizing on these 
developments: its own Kurdish population, who has long been agitating 
for its own autonomy.

As Turkey makes good friends with the Syrian and Iraqi Kurds, it has 
to keep its own disgruntled Kurds happy. Rising Kurdish nationalism 
across the region has excited the country’s Kurds. Turkey has witnessed a
 rise in PKK attacks recently, with the group even launching a brazen, 
if aborted, fall campaign to take over towns in the country’s southeast.
 Politically, Ankara’s failed 2009 attempt to provide more cultural 
rights for Kurds has added to the their frustrations. Such sentiments 
will be voiced prominently in the country’s 2013 local elections, when 
the Kurdish nationalist Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) will likely 
retain control of major cities in southeastern Turkey.

It will be hard for Turkey to build a strong relationship with the 
Syrian and Iraqi Kurds when Turkish Kurds are locked in a centrifugal 
tendency away from Ankara. As it aims for influence in Syria and Iraq, 
Ankara has to make peace with its Kurdish community. If autonomy is the 
way to resolve the Kurdish issue in Iraq and Syria, in Turkey the path 
forward is more democracy. Currently, Turkey is debating whether to 
write its first civilian constitution. This presents the country with a 
timely opportunity to create a truly liberal charter that broadens 
everybody’s rights, including those of the Kurds.







at

November 05, 2012















