# Faux Contrarians, Faux Liberterians

[Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2021-09-15/peter-thiel-gamed-silicon-valley-tech-trump-taxes-and-politics)

Peter Thiel Gamed Silicon Valley, Donald Trump, and Democracy to Make Billions, Tax-Free

In an exclusive excerpt from The Contrarian, a new biography, the
disruption-preaching power broker is revealed as just another rich guy
desperate to keep his fortune from the IRS.

Until the Trump Tower meeting, in December 2016, he’d been known as a
wealthy and eccentric venture capitalist—a key figure in Silicon
Valley for sure, but hardly someone with political clout. His support
of Trump, starting in May 2016, when fellow Davos-goers were mostly
bedded down with other candidates, had changed that...

But Silicon Valley also reflected the values of the man who’d
organized the meeting, and Thiel .. [who] seemed to value the
expansion of his own wealth above almost all else...

The Trump administration, of course, ended badly for many of the
participants in the meeting.. But Trump’s presidency would not end
badly for Thiel. Thiel’s companies would win government contracts, and
his net worth would soar—and it would, crucially, remain in the legal
tax shelter that he’s spent half his career trying to protect...
 
As impressive as this entrepreneurial résumé might be, Thiel has been
even more influential as an investor and backroom dealmaker. He leads
the so-called PayPal Mafia, an informal network of interlocking
financial and personal relationships that dates to the late
1990s. This group includes Elon Musk, plus the founders of YouTube,
Yelp, and LinkedIn; the members would provide startup capital to
Airbnb, Lyft, Stripe, and Facebook...

The ambitions of these men have often gone hand in hand with Thiel’s
extremist libertarian political project: a reorganization of
civilization that would shift power from traditional
institutions—e.g., mainstream media, democratically elected
legislatures—toward startups and the billionaires who control
them. Thiel secretly funded the lawsuit that destroyed Gawker Media in
2016...

A week later [after 2016 win], Thiel reported to Trump Tower with a
half-dozen aides... The group, led by Blake Masters, a longtime aide
who’d served as Thiel’s Zero to One co-writer, was given the job of
suggesting appointees who could drastically limit the scope of “the
administrative state.”

Thiel wasn’t playing for influence. He was playing for money

As a political animal, Thiel possessed instincts that could seem
almost comically bad. His list of 150 names for senior-level jobs
included numerous figures who were too extreme even for the most
extreme members of Trump’s inner circle...

For Trump’s science adviser, Thiel suggested two climate change
deniers, Princeton physicist William Happer and Yale computer
scientist David Gelernter. For the head of the Food and Drug
Administration, Thiel offered, among other names, Balaji Srinivasan,
an entrepreneur with no obvious experience in government, who seemed
skeptical that the FDA should exist at all. “For every thalidomide,”
Srinivasan had tweeted (and later deleted), “many dead from slowed
approvals.”

Bannon brought them all to meet with Trump but didn’t endorse the
picks. “Balaji is a genius,” he says. “But it was too much.” Bannon
knew it was unrealistic to nominate a provocateur who’d implied he
wanted to get rid of the FDA to run said agency. Doing so would have
gotten Trump branded a radical—and not the good kind. Bannon
continues, “That’s not a confirmation hearing you’re going to win in
the first 100 days. Remember, we’re a coalition, and the Republican
establishment was aghast at what we were doing.”..
 
Invites to that Trump Tower meeting had been given out to the tech
companies with the largest market capitalizations, but Thiel made two
exceptions. Musk, who runs SpaceX, where Thiel is a major shareholder,
got to come even though both SpaceX and his other company, Tesla, were
much smaller than the next largest company at the time. So did Alex
Karp, CEO of an even smaller company, Palantir, which Thiel had
co-founded in 2004...

But inside Palantir there were questions about to what extent—or even
whether—the technology worked. The company had struggled during
President Barack Obama’s second term as enthusiasm for its offerings
dimmed among intelligence agencies and big corporate customers... “We
had nothing.” Another senior executive called Metropolis, Palantir’s
main product, a “disaster.”..

[T]he new administration presented an opportunity for Palantir—and for
Thiel, who had much of his net worth tied up in the company. Just
before Election Day in 2016, a federal judge had ruled in a lawsuit
brought by Palantir that the Army would have to rebid its database
contract and consider Thiel’s company. The court order didn’t mean the
Army would buy Palantir’s software, only that it would give it a “hard
look,” as Hamish Hume, the company’s lawyer on the case, put it.

Now Karp (and Thiel) had a chance to make a personal appeal to the
commander in chief. During the meeting at Trump Tower, Karp promised
Trump that Palantir could “help bolster national security and reduce
waste.” Karp would later say he had no idea why he’d been invited; all
he knew was that his friend had organized it. Of course, Thiel didn’t
invite any other defense contractors, such as Raytheon Technologies,
Palantir’s main competitor in the bidding on the Army deal, to the
meeting...

[Soon] the NIH would give Palantir a $7 million contract to help the
agency keep track of the research data it was collecting. There would
be many more contracts...

The strategy was legal, even if it was, from the standpoint of any
normal sense of fairness, outrageous. Thiel had parked much of his
wealth inside an investment vehicle known as a Roth IRA. Roths are
tax-free retirement accounts that were designed for middle-class and
lower-middle-class workers, not billionaires—contributions are capped
at just $6,000 per year. (You can also convert a traditional IRA into
a Roth if you pay taxes on the old account.) It’s illegal to use a
Roth account to buy stock in a company you control. And yet, starting
in 1999, Thiel used a Roth to buy stock in companies with which he was
closely associated—including PayPal and Palantir—for prices that were
as low as a thousandth of a penny per share. All the capital gains
since then have been tax-free...

This was scary to Thiel, according to several longtime employees. They
say his vulnerability to a change in tax policy or a shift in IRS
enforcement seemed to dominate how he related to people around
him. Anxiety about a potential crackdown seemed to be part of his
motivation to acquire New Zealand citizenship in 2011 and to support
Trump in 2016, according to these sources...

After Trump’s loss in November, Thiel’s employees and allies were
abuzz with rumors about secret uncounted votes in key swing states and
how the election’s outcome was somehow in doubt. Eric Weinstein, a
podcast host and longtime Thiel adviser, tweeted videos of a purported
Postal Service whistleblower. (The claims, which turned out to have
been fabricated, were distributed by conservative journalist and
provocateur James O’Keefe, another Thiel ally who has received funds
from him in the past.)...
 

