# Future Shock

Toffler

[Pace of change is increasing (due to 3rd Wave, new production is
knowledge based, flowing at faster rates, and even subtituting for
hard materials, labor), how to manage it?  There is so much change
anyone can handle, which creates problems - core of Toffler's *Future
Shock*] Some people, for reasons still not clear, are pitched at a
much higher level of stimulus hunger than others. They seem to crave
change even when others are reeling from it. A new house, a new car,
another trip, another crisis on the job, more house guests, visits,
financial adventures and misadventures—they seem to accept all these
and more without apparent ill effect.

Yet close analysis of such people often reveals the existence of what
might be called "stability zones" in their lives—certain enduring
relationships that are carefully maintained despite all kinds of other
changes.  One man I know has run through a series of love affairs, a
divorce and remarriage—all within a very short span of time. He
thrives on change, enjoys travel, new foods, new ideas, new movies,
plays and books. He has a high intellect and a low "boring point," is
impatient with tradition and restlessly eager for novelty. Ostensibly,
he is a walking exemplar of change.

When we look more closely, however, we find that he has stayed on the
same job for ten years. He drives a battered, seven-year-old
automobile. His clothes are several years out of style. His closest
friends are long-time professional associates and even a few old
college buddies.

Another case involves a man who has changed jobs at a mind-staggering
rate, has moved his family thirteen times in eighteen years, travels
extensively, rents cars, uses throw-away products, prides himself on
leading the neighborhood in trying out new gadgets, and generally
lives in a restless whirl of transience, newness and diversity. Once
more, however, a second look reveals significant stability zones in
his life: a good, tightly woven relationship with his wife of nineteen
years; continuing ties with his parents; old college friends
interspersed with the new acquaintances.

A different form of stability zone is the habit pattern that goes with
the person wherever he travels, no matter what other changes alter his
life. A professor who has moved seven times in ten years, who travels
constantly in the United States, South America, Europe and Africa, who
has changed jobs repeatedly, pursues the same daily regimen wherever
he is. He reads between eight and nine in the morning, takes
forty-five minutes for exercise at lunch time, and then catches a
half-hour cat-nap before plunging into work that keeps him busy until
10:00 P.M.The problem is not, therefore, to suppress change, which
cannot be done, but to manage it. If we opt for rapid change in
certain sectors of life, we can consciously attempt to build stability
zones elsewhere.

