# Manganese Hydride

<img width="400" src="https://bloximages.chicago2.vip.townnews.com/elkodaily.com/content/tncms/assets/v3/editorial/4/30/4306b99b-a4db-5e90-847e-65b2d2c91aa8/5d4dda5f5f74e.image.jpg"/>

[Link](https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/news/new-material-could-unlock-potential-for-hydrogen-powered-vehicle-revolution)

Scientists have discovered a new material that could hold the key to
unlocking the potential of hydrogen powered vehicles.

As the world looks towards a gradual move away from fossil fuel
powered cars and trucks, greener alternative technologies are being
explored, such as electric battery powered vehicles.

Another ‘green’ technology with great potential is hydrogen
power. However, a major obstacle has been the size, complexity, and
expense of the fuel systems – until now.

An international team of researchers, led by Professor David Antonelli
of Lancaster University, has discovered a new material made from
manganese hydride that offers a solution. The new material would be
used to make molecular sieves within fuel tanks - which store the
hydrogen and work alongside fuel cells in a hydrogen powered ‘system’.

The material, called KMH-1 (Kubas Manganese Hydride-1), would enable
the design of tanks that are far smaller, cheaper, more convenient and
energy dense than existing hydrogen fuel technologies, and
significantly out-perform battery-powered vehicles.

Professor Antonelli, Chair in Physical Chemistry at Lancaster
University and who has been researching this area for more than 15
years, said: “The cost of manufacturing our material is so low, and
the energy density it can store is so much higher than a lithium ion
battery, that we could see hydrogen fuel cell systems that cost five
times less than lithium ion batteries as well as providing a much
longer range – potentially enabling journeys up to around four or five
times longer between fill-ups.”

The material takes advantage of a chemical process called Kubas
binding. This process enables the storage of hydrogen by distancing
the hydrogen atoms within a H2 molecule and works at room
temperature. This eliminates the need to split, and bind, the bonds
between atoms, processes that require high energies and extremes of
temperature and need complex equipment to deliver.

The KMH-1 material also absorbs and stores any excess energy so
external heat and cooling is not needed. This is crucial because it
means cooling and heating equipment does not need to be used in
vehicles, resulting in systems with the potential to be far more
efficient than existing designs.

The sieve works by absorbing hydrogen under around 120 atmospheres of
pressure, which is less than a typical scuba tank. It then releases
hydrogen from the tank into the fuel cell when the pressure is
released.

The researchers’ experiments show that the material could enable the
storage of four times as much hydrogen in the same volume as existing
hydrogen fuel technologies

[Link](https://elkodaily.com/lifestyles/professor-hanington-s-speaking-of-science-storing-hydrogen-in-a/article_a400c9cf-afbb-5668-aff1-c046fa347470.html)

[Kubagen](https://www.kubagen.co.uk)

