# The Memristor

<img width="300"  src='https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/tweets/2019/memristor.png'>

Some call memristor "The Fourth Element" because after the widely
known elements resistor, capacitor, inductor, the memristor would be
the the fourth, and in a way, the missing element. Its founder
actually discovered it because he postulated *it had to be there*; the
first three are all results of various relations between voltage,
current, charge, flux; one relation and its circuit element was
missing - that turned out to be the memristor. And the last element
added is perhaps the most important one with far-reaching consequences
as it can point to the way nature *really* computes.

[Theory](http://www.cpmt.org/scv/meetings/chua.pdf) published in 1971,
manufactured 4 the first time in 2008. It's architecture is a
collection of differential equations! See *Dynamical Systems with
Applications using Python* by Lynch, pg. 65 for an intro on its
mathemamatics. You can apparently build computers with this
thing. Memory and processing on the same unit!

The area of research for memristors is named non-linear electronics.
In fact, triggering chaos in circuits is a test for presence of
memristors!  Apparently found in nature too.

[Link](https://asic2.group/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/mi0518_HajAli_AH3.fin_.pdf)

[Video](https://youtu.be/9Hm_g3yKhjk)

Nature [article](https://www.nature.com/news/2008/080430/full/news.2008.789.html)

The first programmable memristor chip,

[Link](https://news.umich.edu/first-programmable-memristor-computer-aims-to-bring-ai-processing-down-from-the-cloud/)

(Because it's year 2019, the article goes on and on abt f--ing machine
learning, but u can read that as "scientific computation").

From what I read so far, it seems memristor allow analog computation,
not just binary. Here is another article talking abt how memristor can
model the brain in a better way, almost naturally.

[Link](https://phys.org/news/2018-12-brain-like-memristor-mimics-synapses.html)

"A new electronic device can developed at the University of Michigan can directly model the behaviors of a synapse, which is a connection between two neurons.

For the first time, the way that neurons share or compete for
resources can be explored in hardware without the need for complicated
circuits"

I always thought human brain is analog.

Maybe the entire von Neumann architecture will be overturned at some
point? VN arch talks about memory and processing as seperate units. 

It's funny I kept thinking abt analog circuits and how they can
compute DE's (as they are modeled with DE's). And how our brains are
analog. This is the continuation of that thought; apparently we can
now create analog computers that can be faster and smaller. 

Forget the transistor, hail the memristor!
