# CI, QM, Masse

The Copenhagen Interpretation assumes an objective Universe ruled by
causality is nonexistent. However, the deterministic derivation of
Schrödinger’s wave equation from classical field theory shows that
causality and determinism prevail at all macroscopic and microscopic
levels in nature.. The CI relies heavily on the probabilistic
interpretation of the wave function ($\psi$), originally proposed by
Born.. [who] postulated that $|\psi|^2$ at any point indicates the
probability density of finding a particle at that point. [This is
wrong].. probability is not a real physical medium capable of
supporting waves..

The true meaning of the wave function $\psi$ is related to the spatial
dependence of the resultant electric field intensity ($E_R$) of
standing transverse elastic waves in aether that exist within and
surrounding an atom. These standing waves result from the continuous
electromagnetic waves emitted by the atom's stationary electrons and
positrons. Since $Q \propto \psi^2$ (where Q is energy density),
$\psi$ is expected to have larger values near an electron, making
Born’s probabilistic interpretation consistent with the energy density
but incorrect in its fundamental assumption that the electron position
is defined by probability..

Stern-Gerlach Experiment: The CI was used to assert that angular
momentum is spatially quantized, meaning electrons have only two
possible magnetic moment orientations. However, the sources explain
the two observed deflection lines by recognizing that the electron
(which is a vortex ring of aether) possesses an inherent acceleration
force. When the electron enters the inhomogeneous magnetic field, it
rotates immediately until its acceleration force and the magnetic
field force are approximately parallel, resulting in all electrons
having one of two possible polarities/orientations that cause the
observed split pattern. This result is explained without appealing to
the "quantum mysteries" of the Copenhagen interpretation

