# How the West Chose War in Gaza

http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/18/opinion/gaza-and-israel-the-road-to-war-paved-by-the-west.html?_r=0

As Hamas fires rockets at Israeli cities and Israel follows up its
extensive airstrikes with a ground operation in the Gaza Strip, the
most immediate cause of this latest war has been ignored: Israel and
much of the international community placed a prohibitive set of
obstacles in the way of the Palestinian “national consensus”
government that was formed in early June.

That government was created largely because of Hamas’s desperation and
isolation [..] Seeing a region swept by popular protests against
leaders who couldn’t provide for their citizens’ basic needs, Hamas
opted to give up official control of Gaza rather than risk being
overthrown. Despite having won the last elections, in 2006, Hamas
decided to transfer formal authority to the Palestinian leadership in
Ramallah. That decision led to a reconciliation agreement between
Hamas and the Palestine Liberation Organization, on terms set almost
entirely by the P.L.O. chairman and Palestinian Authority president,
Mahmoud Abbas.

Israel immediately sought to undermine the reconciliation agreement by
preventing Hamas leaders and Gaza residents from obtaining the two
most essential benefits of the deal: the payment of salaries to 43,000
civil servants who worked for the Hamas government and continue to
administer Gaza under the new one, and the easing of the suffocating
border closures imposed by Israel and Egypt that bar most Gazans’
passage to the outside world.

Yet, in many ways, the reconciliation government could have served
Israel’s interests.

That's the funny thing -- it would have

* It offered Hamas’s political adversaries a foothold in Gaza; it was
formed without a single Hamas member; it retained the same
Ramallah-based prime minister, deputy prime ministers, finance
minister and foreign minister; and, most important, it pledged to
comply with the three conditions for Western aid long demanded by
America and its European allies: nonviolence, adherence to past
agreements and recognition of Israel.

Israel strongly opposed American recognition of the new government,
however, and sought to isolate it internationally, seeing any small
step toward Palestinian unity as a threat. Israel’s security
establishment objects to the strengthening of West Bank-Gaza ties,
lest Hamas raise its head in the West Bank. And Israelis who oppose a
two-state solution understand that a unified Palestinian leadership is
a prerequisite for any lasting peace [..].

But the key issues of paying Gaza’s civil servants and opening the
border with Egypt were left to fester. The new government’s ostensible
supporters, especially the United States and Europe, could have pushed
Egypt to ease border restrictions, thereby demonstrating to Gazans
that Hamas rule had been the cause of their isolation and
impoverishment. But they did not.

Instead, after Hamas transferred authority to a government of
pro-Western technocrats, life in Gaza became worse.

Qatar had offered to pay Gaza’s 43,000 civil servants, and America and
Europe could have helped facilitate that. But Washington warned that
American law prohibited any entity delivering payment to even one of
those employees — many thousands of whom are not members of Hamas but
all of whom are considered by American law to have received material
support from a terrorist organization.

When a United Nations envoy offered to resolve this crisis by
delivering the salaries through the United Nations, so as to exclude
all parties from legal liability, the Obama administration did not
assist. Instead, it stood by as Israel’s foreign minister, Avigdor
Lieberman, called for the envoy’s expulsion on the grounds that he was
“trying to funnel money” to Hamas.

For many Gazans, and not just Hamas supporters, it’s worth risking
more bombardment and now the ground incursion, for a chance to change
that unacceptable status quo. A cease-fire that fails to resolve the
salary crisis and open Gaza’s border with Egypt will not last. It is
unsustainable for Gaza to remain cut off from the world and
administered by employees working without pay. A more generous
cease-fire, though politically difficult for Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu, would be more durable.The current escalation in Gaza is a
direct result of the choice by Israel and the West to obstruct the
implementation of the April 2014 Palestinian reconciliation
agreement. The road out of the crisis is a reversal of that policy.

Yes














