# Week 13


Scientific Frontline: "Researchers of the [RU] Institute of Hydrogen
Energy of the Ural Federal University..  have created a promising
material for hydrogen energy devices. The new material has high proton
conductivity and unusual properties (depending on the degree of
doping). It can be used as an electrolyte (at high doping levels) and
as an electrode (at low doping levels) in solid oxide fuel cells and
electrolyzers.. This allows these materials to be used as electrodes
for.. both solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) and electrolyzers"

[[-]](https://www.sflorg.com/2023/03/chm03232303.html?m=1)

---

"Ben" has some interesting observations on crypto land..

Prospect: "Signature Bank had reinvented itself as one of the
crypto-friendliest banks in America, possibly to offset an unusual
slump in its previous client base, the New York City landlord
class. But while the big bet had shrunk its stock price, Signature
seemed to have weathered Crypto Winter all right until a hysterical
billionaire bank run took out Silicon Valley Bank on March 10...

[I]t’s a uniquely American feature of political and
financial crises that the characters our systems hold accountable for
their bottomless supply of elaborate malfeasance seem always to lean
toward the implausibly clownish. A conspicuously impaired 22-year-old
named Lynndie England bore responsibility for a sprawling assembly
line of physical and psychological torture at Abu Ghraib while her
higher-ups skated; a 30-year-old Goldman Sachs trader nicknamed
“Fabulous Fab” was the most senior bulge bracket bank executive
indicted in the multitrillion subprime CDO racket while his hedge fund
clients walked away billionaires.

So it goes with the gargantuan phalanx of flimflammers and rug-pullers
who sold America’s debt-enslaved youth on the fever dream of the
blockchain. Yes, SBF is behind bars, but.. billionaires who
shamelessly shilled for so many other interconnected
cash-for-counterfeit schemes just orchestrated a $42 billion bank run
and were instantly rewarded with an unprecedented bailout"

[[-]](https://prospect.org/economy/2023-03-23-rich-bank-dumb-bank-signature/)

---

This word became prevalent with the US deep state project ISIS who
called themselves "a worldwide caliphate" which tells you what the
shadowy figures in the dark corners of US policy want to happen in the
Islamic world. They would like to have a Caliphate which they could
influence, the label could be used as a wrecking ball, hit one
goverment or the other when they disagree, manufacture managed chaos
which then could further be utilized as a pretext for operations "to
bring democracy" there.

---

An official Caliph no longer exists; the title was abolished when the
last Ottoman mucker holding it was stripped of it, and later the royal
family fled from Stanpoli to UK en masse anyway (to UK, interesting
isn't it?). Saudi Arabia is not a caliphate, they are the keepers of
the holy sites, but SA ruler is not a caliph. Neither is the Egyptian
head of gov, or UAE, or even Jordan (where the current king is a
descendant of Mohammad).

---

American complains "women cannot go to school in Afghanistan". You
lost your chance to improve that country when u failed to switch AFG
agro from [ophium to cotton](2023/01/little-america-chandrasekaran.html).
Livelihood trumps school. Improvement in livelihood could pave the way
for more changes. Now you are out, and oppo kicked your ass on the way out.
Why constantly whine about it?

---

That whole "Taiwan is so close to China" observation (suggesting they
can invade easily) was probably to argue that he didn't want to defend
Taiwan, strategically speaking. Factually, US *could* help defend
China even with the proximity problem. People in politics can change
facts to argue an opinion sometimes, DJT more than others.

---

Trump changed some aspects of CH rel but he wasn't too anti-China.
There are Reps 10 times more hawkish.

---


Nanowerk: "Researchers from the University of Twente developed a new
composite material that outperforms the individual compounds... The
composite consists of several earth-abundant elements"

[[-]](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.2c08096)

<img width='340' src='https://scx1.b-cdn.net/csz/news/800a/2023/new-composite-material.jpg'/> 

---

H2 Central: "Extreme E has announced a ‘successful showcase’ of
ENOWA’s hydrogen mobile fuel cell system following its first test
during Desert X Prix, at the planned Saudi Arabian smart city of NEOM"

---
