# Week 19


RU frontline changes in the past two months, multiple regions

```python
u.sm_plot_ukr2('ukrdata/fl-0501.csv','ukrdata/fl-0304.csv')
```

[[-]](mbl/2023/ukr-13.jpg)

---

"Downstream benefits of business activity".. how do you measure that?
In terms of fish in the Hudson River? Such activity clearly did not
work for them, or for people who lived off the river. This the most
advanced country in the world, mind you. I wouldn't have believed it
if I hadn't lived near the f-ing thing myself.

---

There is nothing sacred about work, that is a ruse created for the
business class so they can remain "in charge" (to get credit which
they use to pay salaries). Work should not equal pay. As long as new
money is created exclusively for business as credit, working class and
humanity at large will never know peace. Have no doubt - these people
will kill you. With money they can buy influence, pollute your rivers,
your children's brains, even the very air your breathe. They've
already done this. Noone should require any more proof than what has
already taken place. New money creation needs to be split at the very
least, evenly between credit and direct assistance. If that means a
reduction in "business activity", that might be a good thing. Less
Coca-Cola, more fruits and vegetables perhaps. Less private property
more public parks. Who knows?


---

"@jaztrophysicist@astrodon.social

Sad and absurd but true: holiday periods encapsulate 90% of academic
research time"

---

Russia is a huge country, there are many regions who are regionally
distinct, they can maintain culture. Russia calling itself
multicultural is different than US using the same term whose people
are intertwined, are always on the move. 

---

Culture is about numbers and proximity due to its subconcious
transmission. By numbers I'm talking big numbers, US state-level big,
or a country level big. Millions of Lithuanians in US living close
proximity in one state could maintain culture. Interspersed among the
larger populace they cannot. They could create ritual around their
culture to maintain it mumble stupid shit to themselves in Lithuanian
prayers put funky Lithuanian hats on their heads, it won't work.

---

.. but hopes were dashed, rate increased, balance sheet started reducing,
market rally went limp.

---

[Link](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1Y01apJC30-xipVijSTO3nfV2C7KJGCg4)

---

Good catch by M. Silva, looks at the correlation btw FED balance sheet
and decreasing stock market (replicated below). There was a brief
uptick in the balance due to the banking crisis (dashed line) markets
rallied, ppl thought it was to time to parteh

[[-]](2021/01/stats.html#fedbalance)

---

"@campuscodi@mastodon.social

Mozilla's Mastodon instance is now live"

[[-]](https://mastodon.social/@campuscodi/110324328539788638)

---
