# Week 33

H2 Central: "The ramp-up of the hydrogen economy will receive €3.7
billion in 2024 following the German government adopting the economic
plan of the Climate & Transformation Fund (KTF), it was announced on 9
August. The KTF has a total budget of €57.6bn for next year and plans
for investments to total €221.8bn between 2024 and 2027"

---

[Link](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1GJDrGYOz3kh-AaHeKl4PX-jYoQaIr1sf)

---

Some festive boomer shit that *Footloose* movie.. But can you top
Travolta and JL Curtis

---

What a strange year.. Added to [the list](0119/2015/12/1973.html).

F24: "[The birth of hip-hop] In New York August 11th, 1973 an 18 year
old DJ who went by the name DJ Kool Herc began speaking over the beat
of the music reminiscent of the toasting style heard in Jamaica, it
wasn't long before the style could be heard all over New York and that
made way for a range of art including Sugar Hill Gang and Rapper's
Delight which took hip-hop mainstream in the 1980s"

---

"@retr0id@retr0.id

it's cute when websites think I would turn off my ad blocker rather
than just leaving the page"

---

Got the choppa

Firstpost: "Germany to own NATO's 2nd largest chopper fleet after
Chinook purchase"

---

Their auditor KPMG has been signing off on their books for the past
four years \#ABC, were they part of the scam?

SMH: "[2022/12] Engineering and construction firm Downer EDI [stock
fell] after the ASX-listed company said it was investigating whether
fraud is behind the 'accounting irregularities' that caused it to
overstate profits by up to $40 million"

---

The consultancy firms raking in billions of taxpayer dollars \#government \#big5 \#au

[[-]](https://youtu.be/pduOqZPnqVc?t=1717)

---

Utility Dive: "Newsom orders clean hydrogen market strategy as
California competes in $8B federal program.. The state will look at
new financing models, permitting process changes and procurement
initiatives to deploy more hydrogen projects"

---

[Donate](https://supporting.openstreetmap.org)

"OpenStreetMap is the ground truth of the map world... It’s one of the
largest, most successful open projects.. and the leading provider of
open map data... Its data provides billions of euros of value to
companies and governments.. Its mappers help millions of people
through hundreds of humanitarian use cases"

---

Tranquility Bass - Cantamilla \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Wm1MSpVoZiE)

---

"@ernie@writing.exchange

Late stage capitalism becoming more and more like *The Purge*

'[News] Thirty to 50 people were part of a robbery crew Saturday that
swarmed a Nordstrom department store and used bear spray on security
guards at a Southern California mall'"

---

USG 2000-08 might have had a hand in meddling with the drug business
south of the border, knocking out top guys in it creating chaos and
mayhem. The M.O. is familiar. We might remember a country whose
authoritarian leader was toppled and bunch of death squads, smaller
fish took over the country creating terror and chaos.. I'll give a
hint the name starts with 'I' (ends with 'raq'). Hell even the former
ambassador to Honduras with expertise on death squads was sent to the
country to fan the flames more? More chaos, longer US presence = more
money for Haliburton.

---

\#Science \#1912

[[-]](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/14/Rodney%C2%B7and%C2%B7Otamatea%C2%B7Times%E2%80%A21912%E2%80%A2Coal%C2%B7consumption%C2%B7affecting%C2%B7climate.jpg/1114px-Rodney%C2%B7and%C2%B7Otamatea%C2%B7Times%E2%80%A21912%E2%80%A2Coal%C2%B7consumption%C2%B7affecting%C2%B7climate.jpg?20220809190436)

---

Latest update - all measurements increasing \#carbon \#methane 

[[-]](2022/01/temp-increase.html#carbon)

---

Fires, how they spread. Distance between homes is key, also house
regulation codes. Greenery between houses can help fires but more
deadly is the flammable leaves, needles they drop. With the right
wind, ever-present (and worsening) heat conditions, stuff catches fire
and spreads like, well, wildfire.

[[-]](https://www.redding.com/story/news/2021/10/26/study-why-california-wildfires-burn-some-homes-spare-others/8429224002/)

---

Business Insider: "Tesla has been exaggerating its vehicles' potential
driving distance for years by rigging their range-estimating software,
report says"

---

"@snarkysteff@mastodon.online

[TV show] *Suits* was streamed for 3 billion minutes on Netflix and
its writers were paid a collective $3,000 in residuals.

And that’s why they are striking"

---

Politico: "Inside Canada’s fight with Facebook: Trudeau says,
'Canadians will not be bullied by billionaires in the U.S'. Canada’s
Liberal government picked a fight with two U.S. tech giants by passing
legislation forcing Meta and Google to pay news publishers for
content... Now Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says big Silicon Valley
firms want to make an example out of his country as Meta, fronted by
two of Ottawa’s brightest political minds hailing from opposing
parties, blocks Canadian news from its platforms"

---

"Google and Meta earn 80% of all digital ad revenue [over $10 billion]
in Canada"

---

UA counter-offensive situation - some wins some losses. Took back some RU gains
around Novovodiane, but lost ground around Kyslivka.

```python
geo = [['Main'],['Staromaiorske','Makarivka','Urozhaine'],['Klischchiivka','Opytne','Bakhmut'],
       ['Malynivka'],['Novovodiane'],['Robotyne'],
       ['Lobkove'],['Kyslivka','Tabaivka'],['Zolotarivka','Spirne']]
       
u.sm_plot_ukr4('ukrdata/fl-0814.csv','ukrdata/fl-0729.csv',geo,3,3,zoom=0.03,fsize=(10,10),)
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/F3i0CsxWAAA8xRq?format=jpg&name=medium)

---

Russia had already lost the Baltic Sea, who wouldn't know that? That
was clear to see since 2004. Ask anyone in the Navy with high enough
rank they will say the same thing (if they don't fire their ass)

---

Informed Comment: "Trouble for Abraham Accords: Saudis Try to
establish E. Jerusalem Consulate for Palestinians, but Extremist
Israeli Gov’t says, 'No!'"

---

Doctorow: "*Bezzle (n): 'the magic interval when a confidence trickster
knows he has the money he has appropriated but the victim does not yet
understand that he has lost it" (JK Gabraith)*'

Uber was, is, and always will be a bezzle. There are just intrinsic
limitations to the profits available to operating a taxi fleet, even
if you can misclassify your employees as contractors and steal their
wages, even as you force them to bear the cost of buying and
maintaining your taxis.

The magic of early Uber – when taxi rides were incredibly cheap, and
there were always cars available, and drivers made generous livings
behind the wheel – wasn't magic at all. It was just predatory pricing"

---

"@marcelias@mas.to

The myth that citizens can out-organize voter suppression is not just
wrong, it is dangerous. It minimizes the real world effects of
repeated, targeted suppression laws. It shifts the burden from the
suppressors to the voters"

---

Deutsche Welle: "The German government approved on Wednesday the
allocation of €57 billion ($63 billion) in investments to tackle
climate change, as Berlin pursues the goal of reaching greenhouse gas
neutrality by 2045"

---

ISR is now officially being run by Ayetollahs. Congrats, you've become
your enemy (and I bet once ISR transition to theocracy is over, Iran
can actually be better off)

NYT: "Ultra-Orthodox members of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s
far-right coalition want to expand the powers of all-male rabbinical
courts, and to bar women and men from mixing in many public arenas"

---

Informed Comment: "Israel to deny Palestinian-Israelis Preparation for
University, in Exact Parallel to Apartheid South Africa"

---

Jens Buchart - Wendy \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/QyV_WpWSboU)

---

"Schwarwel@schwarwel@stranger.social

'The richest 10% of the world's population are responsible for more
than half of the emissions; The richest 1% damages the climate twice
as much as the entire poorer 50% of humanity"'"

---

Annual temparature averages from the NOAA summaries - there is increase

```python
u.get_pd().read_csv('temp-avgs.csv',index_col='year',sep=' ').plot()
```

[[-]](temp-noaa-avg.jpg)

---

Stations are not uniformly distributed obviously for gridded plotting
their values need to be interpolated into grid points,
`scipy.interpolate` has `NearestNDInterpolator`, it works well.

---

Some places are in bad shape even now. They will be worse off once the
climate change kicks into high gear.

---

oh yea... \#wbt

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/F3br8clXIAEu8AR?format=jpg&name=large)

---

NOAA has (open, free) daily summary data per weather station.. could
process that to get wet-bulb temp, calc max of given year/month (say
2022 August) and show it worldwide...? Hmm

---

That was fast \#FOSS \#FTW

"Linus Torvalds just pushed the kernel code changes around AMD
INCEPTION and Intel DOWNFALL as well as other security patches"

---

Sounds serious

Wired: "New ‘Downfall’ Flaw Exposes Valuable Data in Generations of Intel Chips"

---

In fusion Eric Lerner's team is well situated to find something
optimal IMO. I'd give funding to them.

---

FT: "Fusion: start-up shares are easier to create than limitless energy"

---

Leeds Building Society: "[02/21] There are now over 676,000 empty
homes in England – and the numbers continue to rise"

---

WION: "Belarus has applied to be part of BRICS: Ambassador Rzheussky"

---

TASS: "Egypt refuses to supply arms to Ukraine despite US’ pressure"

---
