# Week 5

---

"@ashleygjovik@mstdn.social

The weather alerts for the SF Bay Area are terrifying

The Bay Area is one of the most polluted areas in the world

'Mitigation' for most of the dangerous toxic contamination has simply
been 'containment' of the polluted soil & water

Floods & mudslides 'un-contain'"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

German, Belgian firms plan 400km \#hydrogen pipeline in North Sea"

---

PV Tech: "Australia, Germany collaborate on green hydrogen with A$110
million in funding for four projects"

---

"An emblematic project consists of using a hydrogen fuel cell power
source to generate sufficient electrical power, in the range of 400
kW, to feed all the non-propulsion systems of next-generation
aircraft. Liebherr-Aerospace Toulouse is developing this power
generation system as part of the France Relance (France Relaunch) plan
with the support of the French Civil Aviation Authority (Direction
G√©n√©rale de l‚ÄôAviation Civile)"

<img width='340' src='h2_stock_1.jpeg'/> 

---

PoA: "Masdar, one of the world‚Äôs leading clean energy companies, Port
of Amsterdam, SkyNRG, Evos Amsterdam and Zenith Energy Terminals have
signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to explore the development
of a green hydrogen supply chain between Abu Dhabi and Amsterdam to
support Dutch and European markets"

---

*Ben-Hur* had people with red capes - Roman generals. Clearly ppl with
costumes have been portrayed in cinema before. Some are just hating

---

Direction sounds fine.. can't wait to see the work. Interesting part
is finance news carries such stories, once comic book movies made
*billions*, they've become newsworthy - they are now binness.

CNBC: "James Gunn unveils DC's new film and TV plan"

---

H2 View: "GreenGo Energy has announced ‚Ç¨8bn ($8.7bn) plans for a 4GW
green energy park in the Ringk√∏bing-Skjern municipality, Denmark,
which is hoped to position the country as a pioneer in the Power-to-X
(P2X) industry and hydrogen"

---

More excerpts from the \#Cole book

[[-]](../../2023/01/mohammad-cole.html)

---

It demonstrates the current state of AI pretty well

---

CatGPT

[[-]](https://catgpt.wvd.io/)

---

Al Monitor: "BBC Arabic radio off air after 85 years, an 'end of an era'"

---

Al Jazeera: "Russia claims village near embattled Ukrainian city of
Bakhmut.. Defence ministry says Blahodatne captured"

---

Irish Times: "China says US started Ukraine conflict and is profiting
from it"

---

TASS: "Poland continues to buy Russian oil from Druzhba pipeline in
January"

---

The Independent: "Rishi Sunak rules out fighter jets for Ukraine as
war could stretch into 2024"

---

TASS: "According to Mr Johnson, the Normandy Format meetings of
Russia, Germany, France and Ukraine in support of the direct dialogue
between Kiev, Donetsk and Lugansk provided for by the Minsk ‚ÄòComplex
of Measures‚Äô were nothing more than a ‚Äòdiplomatic charade‚Äô"

---

Reuters: "Australia and Germany have earmarked 35.5 million and 54.4
million dollars, respectively, towards a joint initiative to establish
a green hydrogen supply chain, Australian Minister for Climate Change
and Energy Chris Bowen said on Friday"

---

Businesswire: "Triton EV Becomes First Indian Auto Company to Announce
Hydrogen Fuel-Powered Trucks"

---

<img width='340' src='toot_dog.png'/> 

---

CW: "Cryomotive‚Äôs CRYOGAS solution claims the highest storage density,
lowest refueling cost and widest operating range without H2 losses
while using one-fifth the carbon fiber required in compressed gas
tanks"

---

This guy is good

Juan Cole: "This book puts forward a reinterpretation of early Islam
as a movement strongly inflected with values of peacemaking.. Life in
[later] medieval feudal societies did not encourage pacific
theologies, and Muslims in later empires lost touch with the realities
of the early seventh century. What if we read Jesus‚Äôs life and thought
only through the lens of Pope Urban II, who launched the sanguinary
Crusades in the Holy Land with the cry, ‚ÄúGod wills it!‚Äù?

---

Below Juan Cole analyzes Israeli culture as an extension of where its
different immigrants came from, rather than an homogenous culture of
transnational religion which stays the same no matter where it is
at. The larger host culture is key. Heritage means little.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/yzn4JzDDkbY?t=348)

---

"[There are protests] against the judicial overhaul pushed by the
Netanyahu government.. 'Netanyahu wants to talk with the Americans
about Iran. They want to talk with him about the possibility that
Israel will turn into Iran.'"

[[-]](https://www.al-monitor.com/originals/2023/01/protests-across-israel-against-judicial-reform-rattle-netanyahu)

---

Bonobo - Bambro Koyo Ganda \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/G6_aCS1u7-M?t=40)

---

Arab News: "Lula da Silva on Wednesday called for the South American
trade bloc Mercosur to urgently seal a free trade agreement with the
European Union before negotiating with China"

---

Al Monitor: "Egypt's Sisi meets Modi, inks 'strategic partnership' on
landmark India visit.. The trip could lead to greater cooperation
between India and Egypt on trade, the Suez Canal, green hydrogen and
more"

---

ABC News: "A 2018 Justice Department study of state and local law
enforcement training academies found that the average length of core
basic police training in the U.S. is 833 hours, or less than 22
weeks... 

In comparison, police recruits in Japan get between 15 and 21 months
of training. Police in Germany get 2.5 years of training. And in
Finland, police education takes three years to complete..

Many police academies in the U.S. still resemble military boot camps,
with cadets in buzz cuts and hair buns getting yelled at by drill
instructors.

'Barking orders and giving commands and sort of a military kind of
thinking -- it's not a problem-solving approach. It's not critical
thinking,' Wexler said.

Much of the training in American police academies emphasizes skills
like marksmanship and defensive tactics, with less focus on so-called
'soft skills' like communication and crisis intervention"

---

Yahoo News: "Memphis police's Scorpion unit is permanently deactivated
after Tyre Nichols' death"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

\#Hydrogen will drastically reduce our need for copper.. 

'[NYT] A Copper Mine Could Advance Green Energy but Scar Sacred Land'"

---

"@CORDIS_EU@respublicae.eu

[Did you know] that üá™üá∫ wants to reduce emissions from heavy-duty #vehicles by
1Ô∏è‚É£5Ô∏è‚É£% from 2025 onwards?

\#EUFunded project ¬¥H2Engine¬¥ brings an innovative contribution to
meet that target, by transforming a standard diesel into \#hydrogen
\#engine

Learn more ‚û°Ô∏è [https://europa.eu/!3rcgFv](https://europa.eu/!3rcgFv)"

---

Libertards, goldbugs don't understand economics. Cant construct a
modern economy on top of a limited-supply rare metal. Want to be
thrifty, be thrifty - do not need gold for that.

---

Today's libertarian likes gold, dislikes imperialism, but they do not
realize gold historically is a vessel for imperialism, not an
imaginary era of thrift. Only a king could have precious metals dug up
and turned into money and ask that money to be paid to him in tax so
his army could be fed. That's how gold became money, it was useful for
kings and opressive, plundering empires.

---

Note he associates gold with expansionist, feudal imperialism.

---

Rereading parts of the great Graber interview; DG hit the nail on the
head on many subjects. That point on religion is right on the money -
all religion, at its core, is left-wing (sadly they get co-opted and
are made to serve the state - see Romanized Christianity, or -Third
Rome- Ottoman Islam).

Graeber: "In the Middle Ages it all shifts back again ‚Äî the great
religions, which really started as anti-war movements, take over, the
armies are disbanded, cash disappears, people go back to virtual money
(both checks and paper money for instance were Medieval inventions.)
Then, after 1492 it swings the other way, again ‚Äî we‚Äôre back to gold
and silver money, vast empires, slavery comes back"

[[-]](../../0119/2011/11/debt-religions-money.html)

---

Burying the dead with worldly items is a continuation of <10K yr old
agrarian era of ancestor burials, the buried ancestors were later
worshipped since they now represented a connection to (arable) land
vital for survival. See [Morris](../../0119/2017/10/wtwrfn-foragers-farmers.html#ancestors).

---

Pharaoahs were an outcome of an agrarian civilization, empires built
on the back of the farmer class. Rome, Otto, the Han were not
different civilizations but variations of the same.

---

4-5K years is nothing compared to 300k of human history. Not a big deal.

The Guardian: "Archaeologist hails possibly oldest mummy yet found in
Egypt.. The 4,300-year-old mummy was found at the bottom of a 15-metre
shaft near the Step Pyramid"

---

"@aarnegranlund@mastodon.social

We're above zero degrees C in the middle of the winter once
again. This is abnormal for our latitudes, especially for the third
week"

<img width="340" src="https://s3.masto.ai/cache/media_attachments/files/109/748/508/052/333/378/original/dd426fba90ff38ec.png"/>

---

Fuelcellworks: "Seattle-based First Mode and Anglo American have
closed a complicated $1.5 billion transaction that will remake First
Mode as a clean-energy company for heavy industry - and shift its
headquarters to London...

The business combination, which was¬†announced last year, blends First
Mode‚Äôs engineering operation with Anglo American‚Äôs nuGen effort to
develop a zero-emission system for hauling ore. First Mode created the
hydrogen-fueled hybrid powerplant for Anglo American‚Äôs nuGen mining
truck, which made its debut in South Africa last year¬†as the world‚Äôs
largest zero-emission vehicle"

---

IMO the problem has more to do with culture, and declining quality
*within* fields, rather than lack of people able to work across
fields. Funding has been flowing to shiny-object-but-fruitless
projects, the culture rewards "getting shit to work".

Nature: "PhD training is no longer fit for purpose.. candidates are
inadequately prepared for the cross-disciplinary working and large
teams that characterize cutting-edge science today"

---

Iran is in deep shit. Israel, Iraq, Pakistan.. The list goes on. 

NYT: " Attack on a Munitions Facility.. The government did not say who
was behind the attempted attack, but some Telegram channels affiliated
with Iran‚Äôs Revolutionary Guards pointed the finger at Israel"

---

Some claim TRY wants a piece of that gasfield action, trying to get it
through their poodle KDP. If PUK leaves "Kurdish" KRG joins Iraq, that
would leave the rest empty handed.  Apparently there is already a KDP
ambargo of sorts on Suleymaniah, it might happen.

---

And of course it is being attacked

Kurdpress: "Local media in the Iraqi Kurdistan region have reported
that Khor Mor gas field in the Kurdistan Region‚Äôs Chamchamal County in
Sulyamaniyeh was targeted with rockets on Friday morning"

---

Khor Mor 

```python
u.sm_plot_kurd()
plt.plot(44.82053178,35.1638440,'x')
```

<img width='340' src='kurd_2.jpg'/> 

---

Reuters: "[2022/12] Some [Kurdish] PUK officials say privately that
without compromise on a range of issues, the party might eventually
break away and form its own administration in its Sulaimaniya
stronghold. The antagonism [with KDP] is also complicating a project
to expand one of the biggest gasfields [Khor Mor] in Iraq, which is in
PUK territory, damaging the region‚Äôs hopes of starting exports to
Europe and earning much-needed revenue"

---

Reagan-era pro-market tough guy balancing the previous era's
drugged-out hippies \#zeitgeist

---

Pepsi, Coors.. 

---

Holy Product Placement

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1N2eyGQd7Da6faKOY1zC_E9x2nqjmd-Sy)

---

Nippon.com: "Russia's defeat in the war in Ukraine is 'unthinkable,'
former Japanese Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori said Wednesday"

---

According to Pompeo book Kim (NK) [said](https://www.arabnews.com/node/2238426/world) 
he needed the Americans in South Korea to protect him from the CCP,
and that the CCP needs the Americans out so they can turn NK into a
vassal state. Maybe Pomp is blowing smoke but interesting data
point anyway... We know so little of NK, CH-NK relation might be
rockier than previously thought. 

---

"@spencerdailey@journa.host

If you had said 3 months ago that I'd be boosting posts about
decentralized protocol projects, I'd have channeled years of web3
skepticism into a categorical denial. But here we are in
blockchain-less Mastodon-land, which has totally rehabilitated the
brand of 'decentralized' and reminded us of the great successes of
email, internet, and torrent tech, and that we should want more"

---

BBC: "The race to make diesel engines run on hydrogen.. Engineers at
the University of New South Wales (UNSW) say they have successfully
modified a conventional diesel engine to use a mix of hydrogen and a
small amount of diesel, claiming their patented technology has cut
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by more than 85%. It's the work of
[researcher] and his team at the university's School of Mechanical and
Manufacturing Engineering. 'The interest in converting an existing
diesel engine into a clean-burning hydrogen engine is extremely high,'
[he] tells the BBC"

---

Howcatchem rather than a whodunit is it? Like Columbo.

---

*Poker Face*, S01E01 - good casting, likable lead. 

---

"@anildash@me.dm

I've spent the last few months bringing my 23+ years of blog archives
up to date.. Tonight's fun discovery is Marc Andreessen affirmatively
citing my work as 'the smartest thing anyone has said' about the
inevitability of a federation of independent networks connected by an
open standard to win against Facebook and similar walled gardens. Six
months later in June 2008, he joined Facebook's board"

---

But employee compensation as part of corporate revenue is going
down. It's *been* going down since the 70s. Not good.

[[-]](../../2021/01/stats.html#compprof)

---

Scratch that - still going strong


```text
            UNRATE  U6RATE  REAL_UNRATE  REAL_UNEMP_LEVEL
DATE                                                     
2022-11-01     3.6     6.7     8.127541           13372.0
2022-12-01     3.5     6.5     7.781603           12837.0
```

---

YoY looks less stellar than QoQ, sign of cooling down?

GPP QoQ

```
2022-07-01    3.243338
2022-10-01    2.891577
```

GDP YoY

```
2022-07-01  1.942138
2022-10-01  0.959254
```

---

H2 View: "‚ÄòHydrogen is on the move‚Äô, says new Baker Hughes
report.. Hydrogen looks set to be a priority among businesses involved
in energy and hard-to-abate industries moving forward, according to a
new report"

---

H2 View: "US DOE launches $47m funding opportunity for hydrogen
delivery, storage, and fuel cell technologies"

---

One merit point for the homie. The opposition is already talking to an
H2 expert, so now both major parties are involved with clean fuels.

H2 Insight: "Green hydrogen targets and incentives.. [TR] has unveiled
a new national Hydrogen Technology Strategy and Roadmap that contains
new targets for green H2 production, a plan to introduce an incentive
mechanism for the local production of equipment, and roles for blue
and turquoise H2 and hydrogen blending into the natural-gas grid"

---

You're a disease and I'm the cure

---

[Link](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1GRGYbf3ekBkN13gQZqH6o5MVU6V78jBW)

---

"Scorpion Unit".. Apparently they roll up on people in unmarked cars,
yell and scream point guns at their heads etc. WTF? White police,
black police doesn't matter - the culture is key.

LA Times: "In early 2022, as violent crime rose in Memphis, Mayor Jim
Strickland set out his ideas for returning safety to the city.. At the
top of his plan: Increase funding to the Memphis Police Department,
give raises and bonuses to officers, and continue the usage of the
city‚Äôs newly formed 'SCORPION' unit, a specialized group of four
roving 10-person teams"

---

Forbes: "5 Black Memphis Cops Upheld Institutional And Cultural Racism
In Tyre Nichols‚Äô Murder"

---
