# Week 31

Coke: The World's Worst Plastic Polluter?

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Va0o-wmW2fQ)

---

"@breadandcircuses@climatejustice.social

How things look from the point of view of our capitalist rulers…"

[[-]](https://climatejustice.social/system/media_attachments/files/110/792/871/677/133/094/original/7b1e5dfb29a4ecbd.jpeg)

---

WaPo is getting a lot of flack for that one \#Climate

[[-]](https://cdn.masto.host/medmastodoncom/media_attachments/files/110/804/762/574/299/223/small/6a81a542da9cd64d.png)

---

With `feedparser` the `post['media_content'][i]` gives the i'th media
content link, eg an image. This is the simplest viewer ever.

---

Getting RSS URL from Masto address? Dude `"https://"+ addr[addr.find("@")+1:] + "/@" + addr[0:addr.find("@")] + ".rss"`

---

Why implement a Web RSS reader for all my Masto follows based on the
CSV export of follows? Because I can. Open source, open data rules.

---

Business Green: "[A] 2021 survey of 738 climate economics papers from
top academic journals found that the median prediction of economists
was that 3°C of warming would reduce global GDP by just five per cent,
and a warming of 5°C would only see a 10 per cent reduction"

---

H2 View: "German zero-emission truck manufacturer Quantron has signed
a Letter of Intent (LoI).. for the procurement of 253 hydrogen-powered
vehicles as part of a French ecosystem project proposal"

---

BBC News: "Plans approved to turn Birmingham car park into urban farm"

---

Beat.Dowsing - Renegades \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Y-uyCcHJuFc)

---


"@MostlyHarmless@thecanadian.social

You millennials and your obsession with public healthcare. Back in my
day we just died"

---

\#Speech

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/cache/media_attachments/files/110/790/486/190/299/967/original/1a9f8e3494bee274.jpg)

---

Oliver Stone is a milquetoast critic, dabbles in conspiracies on JFK
implying gov had an hand in his death (untrue, JFK was an incompetent
jackass managed got himself shot, all by himself) his work jives well with
the [grand bargain](2023/06/evil-geniuses.html#bargain). Corporations
like his movies, he is useful, so he is allowed to do what he
does. Maybe *Wall Street* could've made a difference, but Stone made
Gekko look cool - failed. Michael Douglas says he runs into finance
types all the time and they tell him "they loved that Gekko character
and want to be like him". GG was supposed to be the bad guy in that
work. O.S.  milquetoast production failed to stress it.

---

PC World: "Vivaldi, Mozilla raise alarms over Google’s proposed ‘DRM
for the Web’"

---

The Matrix symbolizes government - it is "everywhere", defines the
rules, bureucratic, "opressive".  Then ragtag freedom fighters, rebel
simple humans, like early US adventerous settlers?, are idolized, when
they rebel with guns -the right loves that part- it is almost like an
mental orgasm for them, it is very cool. The cultural left is happy
too because it is, well, opressive government like in 1973, ew like
Nixon or something (who ended the Vietnam war but whatever).. It is
not just films, games that causes the shooting phenomena I want to
make that clear, the pro-market anti-gov ideology is everywhere (the
real Matrix?), which is funded, nurtured by private interests. This
ideology, on its fringes, will cause school shootings. Said interests
are squarely responsible for the deaths of those kids.

---

A public school is a government run institution, so gun violence there
is like a mini-attack against the government. Kids learn who the bad
guy is through their media, popular culture, or the political
discourse which seeps through to them through grown ups, some on the
extremes can apply it in real life. Parkland, Columbine were both
public high schools. The kids who did the shooting at Columbine maybe
were acting out the lobby scene from *The Matrix*.

---

"[A researcher looked at] 134 [US] school shootings from 2000 to 2018.
Only eight of these occurred in private schools while 122
occurred in public schools"

---

"@Ruth_Mottram@fediscience.org

So, the \#BBC got here. And they're hosting their own server it seems..."

<img width='200' src='https://a.mindlycdn.com/media_attachments/files/110/809/537/265/480/945/original/ff25f1c482b8f6d0.jpeg'/> 

---

Batteries on fire. Again

7News: "Convergent offers words of apology as solar farm fire
continues to burn..  In a statement, Convergent Energy and Power said
the [burning] battery storage system it operates near Chaumont was
manufactured by General Electric"

---

RU foreign min called for 'restoration of constitutional order', does
that mean return to previous status-quo, exactly...? I hope
stakeholders in the region / abroad did not get encouragement there,
when the chips are down anything can happen.

---

Strong words.. A commenter says Ecowas is serious, they indicated
military intervention, and they've done this sort of thing before in
Sierra Leone, Liberia during the 90s. But if Niger gets backing
somehow there can be trouble.

The Street Journal: "ECOWAS gave [Niger] coup plotters one week to
reinstate ousted president"

---

Free-market triage

"UHS says company favors patients whose insurance pays more"

---

\#Monopoly \#Millenials

[[-]](https://thecanadian.social/system/media_attachments/files/110/792/304/943/897/724/small/0fcfb83a35179e34.jpg)

---

PV Magazine: "Inner Mongolia University researchers have reported that
the Klebsiella pneumoniae Y7-3 strain, isolated from sheep rumen, can
directly produce high-yield hydrogen using inexpensive straw as a raw
material. The strain increased hydrogen production by 15.03% compared
to the control group using corn stalk and yeast powder. The
researchers published their findings in Energy, stating that anaerobic
fermentation with 50 g L−1 of corn straw as the carbon source could
produce 1253.72 ± 55.67 mL/L of hydrogen in 24 hours"

---

PV Magazine: "Germany to use hydrogen ‘in all sectors’.. The German
authorities have announced plans to double domestic electrolysis
capacity"

---

The Economist: "[2011 A] sober view of globalisation deserves a wide
audience. But whether it will get it is another matter. This is partly
because 'World 3.0' is a much less exciting title than 'The World is
Flat' or 'Jihad vs. McWorld'. And it is partly because people seem to
have a natural tendency to overestimate the distance-destroying
quality of technology. Go back to the era of dictators and world wars
and you can find exactly the same addiction to globaloney. Henry Ford
said cars and planes were 'binding the world together'. Martin
Heidegger said that 'everything is equally far and equally
near'. George Orwell got so annoyed by all this that he wrote a
blistering attack on all the fashionable talk about the abolition of
distance and the disappearance of frontiers.. in 1944"

---

"@ajsadauskas@aus.social

Hi, we're a tech startup run by libertarian Silicon Valley tech bros.

We're not a newspaper, we're a content portal.

We're not a taxi service, we're a ride sharing app.

We're not a pay TV service, we're a streaming platform.

We're not a department store, we're an e-commerce marketplace.

We're not a financial services firm, we're crypto.

We're not a space agency, we're a group of visionaries who are totally
going to Mars next year.

We're not a copywriting and graphic design agency, we're a large
language model generative AI platform.

Oh sure, we compete against those established businesses. We basically
provide the same goods and services.

But we're totally not those things. At least from a legal and PR
standpoint.

And that means all the laws and regulations that have built up over
the decades around those industries don't apply to us.

Things like consumer protections, privacy protections, minimum wage
laws, local content requirements, safety regulations, environmental
protections... They totally don't apply to us.

Even copyright laws — as long as we're talking about everyone else's
intellectual property.

We're going to move fast and break things — and then externalise the
costs of the things we break.

We've also raised several billion in VC funding, and we'll sell our
products below cost — even give them away for free for a time — until
we run our competition out of the market.

Once we have a near monopoly, we'll enshitify the hell out of our
service and jack up prices.

You won't believe what you agreed to in our terms of service
agreement.

We may also be secretly hoarding your personal information. We know
who you are, we know where you work, we know where you live. But you
can trust us.

By the time the regulators and the general public catch on to what
we're doing, we will have well and truly moved on to our next grift.

By the way, don't forget to check out our latest innovation. It's the
Uber of toothpaste!"

---

"@arstechnica@mastodon.social

Microsoft Teams + Office bundle leads to official EU antitrust probe

It's Microsoft's first formal EU antitrust investigation in over a decade"

---

Great idea \#Corporations \#Rent

[[-]](https://media.mas.to/masto-public/media_attachments/files/110/780/798/887/141/267/original/2d34038cf67cb746.png)

---

People are in awe of some of the freedoms enjoyed by a US film writer,
director. How can you speak against the government, hell, even the
concept of government? That has nothing to do with the "strength of
their democracy", but everything to do with the current power
structure in the country. Corporations won the war against all other
power centers in US, now through *their* movies they are rubbing
everyone else's noses in it. This is how heroes of a movie can enter a
government building with guns (lots of guns), shoot an innocent
employee (the guy wasn't overtaken by 'the Matrix' so he'd die in his
pod), and continue a rampage with big-beat dance music on full blast
in the background, bad guys are government, good guys are this rag-tag
individuals, resembling early settlers of US in the wild frontier
maybe? How nice. The audience is sold.

They make such movies because they can. They are *allowed* to make
them.

---

I believe I watched 2014 Germany - Argentina final at the Berlin
Marriott. Great match.

---

Where is "AI"?  Driving should be simple for it since it already
"solved" language, about to become self-aware 😶

Ars Technica: "Waymo kills off autonomous trucking program.. Google's
cost cutters are taking another bite out of Waymo. After being hit by
layoffs that cut 8 percent of staff, it now looks like the
self-driving truck program—Waymo Via—is dead"

---

Slate: "Tesla Sold a Myth About Batteries That Everyone Wanted to Be
True.. But the problem isn’t just that Tesla hoodwinked customers,
investors, and regulators about the extent of its vehicles’ real-world
range, an act evocative of the infamous VW 'dieselgate' scandal. This
pattern only fueled an even larger myth: that loading up EVs with
massive battery packs is a viable, sustainable, apple-to-apples
replacement for gas vehicles"

[[-]](https://slate.com/technology/2023/07/tesla-range-complaints-deception-electric-vehicles-battery-size.html)

---

Now some Western countries sanction this or that Haitian leader.. the
situation they are in is not their fault.

---

Miami Rice = Miami Vice

"Miami Rice Invades Haiti. In 1987, [new junta leader supported by US]
Namphy received IMF loans valued at $24.6 million in exchange for
agreeing to slash rice tariffs from 150% to 50%, the lowest in the
Caribbean. He opened all of Haiti’s ports to commercial activity and
agreed to stop what little support the government had offered Haitian
farmers. Meanwhile, Haiti’s military elite saw an opportunity to make
a profit smuggling American rice.. In the United States, the passage
of the 1985 Farm Bill significantly boosted subsidies to American rice
growers. By 1987, 40% of American rice growers' profits came from the
government. Heavily subsidized American rice could sell at prices far
below the market value of Haitian rice. Haitian farmers never stood a
chance against this unfair competition".. In Haiti, imported American
rice is called 'Miami rice' because it is shipped from Miami in sacks
stamped 'Miami, FLA.' By December 1987, Haiti’s rice production had
shrunk to 75% of Haitian needs"

---

Religion at its core is left wing. A lot of uprisings started bcz of
debt.

---

"@qurlyjoe@mstdn.social

Apparently, the Bible verses about a talking snake are literal, but
the part about forgiving everyone's debt is just a metaphor"

---

NPR: "Actors take to the internet to show their residual checks, with
some in the negative.. Mandy Moore, who starred in NBC's *This Is Us*,
said she has received streaming residual payments of less than a
dollar. She has been on the picket line as part of the actors strike"

---

Regions where wet-bulb temp above 19 C for July 2019. Around the Medi,
part of Black Sea, Greece/West TR, Asia, SE of US looks bad.

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/110/787/616/669/269/215/original/9d31680fb1928a6e.jpg)

---

Niger's resources are visible on the map below shared earlier, lota uranium

[[-]](2022/01/oilgasmin.html#minerals)

---
 
"'NATO is a flawed organization. They can never contain Russia' –
Eritrea’s President Afwerki at a meeting with Putin"

---

"Moscow Has Forgiven $23 Billion Debts Owed By African Countries"

---

UA advances after three weeks.. some visible gains.. But dam, Holy Novovodiane..
It looks like during all this Ukranian counteroffensive, Russians sneaked in
an offensive of their own.

```python
geo = [['Main'],['Spirne', 'Berestove'], ['Orikhiv'],
       ['Lobkove'],['Makarivka'], ['Vuhledar', 'Velyka Novosilka'],
       ['Marinka'],['Avdiivka', 'Opytne'],['Karmazynivka', 'Novovodiane'],
       ['Yahidne'],['Orikhovo-Vasylivka'],['Kreminna']]
       
u.sm_plot_ukr4('ukrdata/fl-0729.csv','ukrdata/fl-0703.csv',geo,4,3,zoom=0.03,fsize=(10,12),)
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/F2Yx-KGXQAAxtqA?format=jpg&name=medium)

---

"@cstross@wandering.shop

.. Just been informed by my GP practice's pharmacist that there's now
a national shortage of Rybelsus, aka Semaglutide, my most effective
diabetes medication, that's likely to last into 2024. Influencers have
been boosting it as a weight loss drug (it's the same drug—in tablet
form—as Ozembic/Wegovy) and private clinics are buying up all the
stock for image-conscious idiots, depriving diabetics of access"

---
