# Week 17

Munee mo munee

Janes: "The US Congress will have to markedly increase unconstrained
shipbuilding funding if it wants the US Navy (USN) to reach the stated
355-ship force by the middle of this century, according to the USN
Report to Congress"

---

The place is called "Stoned and Toned". 

The Holywood Reporter: "Exercising While Stoned: I Tried a Cannabis
Workout Class"

---

Modern US liberalism can get delusional; it always had a subjective,
un-scientific bent, bizarre ideas about the self. Truly mambo-jambo
stuff, "new age", like "believing you can be, at an instant, however
you label yourself to be". How the flap can you will yourself to be a
man, or woman when you aren't? In own head fine but why inflict that
delusion on others?

---

Good law.

CBS News: "The Republican-led House passed a bill Thursday that would
bar schools and colleges that receive federal money from allowing
transgender athletes whose biological sex assigned at birth was male
to compete on girls or women's sports teams or athletic events"

---

H2 View: "Chinese-based Hydrexia Energy Technology has launched a
Metal Hydride Trailer (MH-100T) for hydrogen storage and
distribution. The 40-foot first-generation trailer is a
‘first-of-its-kind’ MHx solid-state hydrogen storage and distribution
product and features magnesium-based alloy.

<img width='340' src='https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTS6xr5OQJwsyjSluvyhHT9D1OMfhgAhQFt3g'/> 

Hydrexia claims it can significantly enhance transportation safety and
distance, while reducing transportation cost. It has a large
solid-state hydrogen storage capacity of one tonne and hydrogen
storage density of 6.4%.

It offers low operating pressures of under 12 bar and high hydrogen
purity at 99.999% along with a lifetime of 3,000 cycles without
performance reduction"

---

JFK wasn't buttonholed into anything for the Bay of Pigs; he modified
parts of the plan (badly), and kept managing it (badly) all the way
through its miserable end. Noone likes their uncle to be an
incompetent dumbass, sadly, this was the case.

[[-]](../../2021/08/nuclear-folly-plokhy.html#bayofpigs)

---

CH attack was likely to entice US for econ help. Xiao wanted to give
Vietnam a visible spanking, a country which had only six years ago
managed to repel the Americans, to show that "see I'm hitting your
former enemy, also containing your Cold War opposition, therefore I'm
your friend".

---

*Deng Xiaoping's Long War*: "[Most scholars] do not elucidate why Deng
[Xiaoping] was so eager to inform the Carter administration of
Beijing’s decision to attack Vietnam, something that normally would
only have happened between two closely allied countries..

Deng staked the success of economic reform on Western technology and
foreign investment, particularly from America. Deng’s acceptance of
U.S. terms during the establishment of diplomatic relations between
the two countries in mid-­December 1978 was crucial in achieving these
two strategic objectives both externally and internally... China’s
decision to launch a punitive war against Vietnam was intended to
display Beijing’s usefulness in countering Soviet expansionism. In
Deng’s own words, China was 'a reliable friend,' and it therefore
deserved Western economic and technological assistance"

---

Most know about US Vietnam War, ended in 1973. Not paid attn to
however is China starting a war with Vietnam in 1979.

---

I was watching a docu, an RFK granddaugter was on, looked her up
apparently one spring got on a canoe, pulled into some turbulence, was
sucked in - bitch died. It's like a joke.

---

But with a Kennedy you never know - he could just fall off the chair
one day, hit his head and die

---

Watched the \#JFKJr speech, sounded almost cogent, not bad for a
Kennedy. Except for the lockdown stuff the rest was ok on regulatory
capture, corporations, Ukraine, food stamp cuts, hits the right
notes. Can be a viable threat for JB. After Trump, lewd scandal stuff
matters less, he can make a play for the working class, Reps through
that vax business, and by being an "irregular politician".

---

Macron: "[04/13] Europeans cannot resolve the crisis in Ukraine; how
can we credibly say on Taiwan, watch out, if you do something wrong,
we will be there?"

---

Macron: "[04/13] Europe cannot blindly follow the United States’ lead
and should avoid getting dragged into crises that are not our own."

---

NYT: "[04/12] AS US Tries to Isolate China, German Companies Move Closer"

---

