# Week 7

H2 Central: "The 1948 Chevrolet 3100 truck.. may look like a
traditional hot rod on the outside, but it hides something a bit
unconventional under the hood. While it draws juice from a
supercharged, 6.2-liter V8, the LS3 in question is not a
gas-guzzler. Instead of gulping gasoline to spin the wheels, the V8
unit feeds on hydrogen..

[Owner] says the hydrogen-powered V8 is capable of much more than
that. He will be able to demonstrate that once he gets his hands on a
set of bigger custom-made injectors.

Once installed, they will enable the V8 to deliver between 550 to 600
horsepower. All that with only water and steam coming out of the
exhaust pipe? Yup, it sounds like a great and efficient way to
keep¬†big-displacement V8 engines alive"

---

Raising the retirement age? It needs to be lowered, as in down to 18. 
Noone should work bcz they have to. There is plenty of f-ing money -
govs will find it when they have to. They happily sink over a trillion
into a lackluster fighter plane, they surely can find some of
it for regular people.

---

That's like saying you can free yourself from the burdens of life by
making seatbelts non-mandatory, letting the market decide, and die
when the market desires it ü§®

---

Borne: ‚ÄúHelping everyone to free themselves through work is a value of
the left‚Äù.. ü§£ Yeah.

---

Borne is supposedly "leftist" but sadly now turned into window
dressing for anti-left policies... The NYT piece is probably psyop
designed to generate symphathy for her so we forget about the recent
protests against the goverment trying to raise the retirement age..

NYT: "The daughter of an Auschwitz survivor, [French PM] √âlisabeth
Borne... "

---

Getting smacked around by modern linguistics expert.. "AI" people are
in trouble

"Debunking the great AI lie - Noam Chomsky, Gary Marcus, Jeremy Kahn"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/PBdZi_JtV4c?t=169)

---

You are confusing Russia with Ukraine

WSJ: "Russia Throws Soldiers Into Firing Line to Gain Inches"

---

CNBC: "Disney said it will be reorganizing into three divisions:
Entertainment, ESPN and parks and experiences.. will slash 7,000 jobs
from its workforce and plans to cut 5.5 billion in costs, including $3
billion in content savings"

---

It's not possible to be culturally Catholic in a Protestan majority
country and vica versa. Your codes will not allow it. If you try too
hard to be something else, you will become neurotic. This word is
associated with certain subgroup but there is Italian neuroticism too,
in quotes obviously "Italian" - same for Polish, and others. First
generation children and their descendants need to understand this
clearly - that fureign fuck talking shit with an accent (your elders)
is not similar to you. It's sad, but that is the truth.

---

Culture is transmitted at young age, subconciously, via osmosis -
through a land and its people, one on one, not through education,
stories, belief, or self-declaration.

---

All migrants are assimilated in one generation; the Turks in Anatolia
were no exception. Their initial culture is gone - almost nothing of
it remains. A form of language is around due to adminstrative,
military reasons, but that language is changed beyond recognition to
the extent that Anatolians today cannot understand "their cousins" in
Asia. 

---

Arab News: "US forces returning to Philippines to counter China
threats..  Once-secret ammunition bunkers and barracks lay abandoned,
empty and overrun by weeds ‚Äî vestiges of.. largest overseas [US] naval
base at Subic Bay in the northern Philippines.  But that may change in
the near future. The US has been taking steps to [return to] the
Philippines more than 30 years after the closure of its large bases in
the country"

---

The Guardian: "Rights abuses often ‚Äòtipping point‚Äô for extremist
recruitment, UN study finds"

---
