# Week 26

H2 Central: "New design for high-power-density fuel cells offers
improved performance and durability – Los Alamos Lab. Promising new
hydrogen fuel cell technology has up to 50% higher performance than
current, state-of-the-art technology, with improved durability. The
grooved electrode design advance may help optimize next-generation
fuel cell technology"

---

Arab News: "Kuwait’s Q8 to build first hydrogen refueling station in
Rome"

---

"@calcifer@hackers.town

The minute a search engine has content-based products, they have a
massive incentive to ruin search to benefit those products. The more
profitable those content products are, the stronger the incentive to
use search to guide traffic there"

---

@mikestevens@aus.social

.. We know how important it was to get cigarette and alcohol
advertising either banned outright or simply out of family spaces,
despite how immensely profitable it all was — yet we still have to
tolerate the lobbying around gambling ads?

---

"@EPPGroup@respublicae.eu

'We thought we could use gas as a transition energy source, but that
is challenged now by the war of Russia against Ukraine. So, we really
have to speed up #hydrogen solutions', outlines @MarkusFerber"

---

"@cinea_EU@respublicae.eu

Works starting for a major #H2 #Hydrogen production unit in Port la
Nouvelle, France thanks to a #EU #CEFTransport grant worth €14.5 M"

<img width='340' src='https://files.respublicae.eu/media_attachments/files/110/627/418/672/085/902/small/73c612033c07f325.jpg'/> 

---

H2 Central: "Novelis Inc., a leading sustainable aluminium solutions
provider and a world leader in aluminium rolling and recycling,
announced that its Latchford plant in the UK has been awarded £4.6
million to establish hydrogen burning trials as part of the UK
Government’s £55m Industrial Fuel Switching Competition"

---

[Link](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1XMocCaDz4HFZPFrd3jtgRwTMIq6Xy3Je)

---

Bad heritage.. There was once a Pope who tried to argue Jesus wasn't
poor. 

---

Only certain sects of Christianity have an issue with abortion, the
ones that are "Romanized". Why are they against it?  Think about it -
the sect continues the customs of the Empire the most - and back then
the Empire needed soldiers.

---

Ideally admission should be color blind, however the current
conditions are anything but ideal. Until then, at least for
admissions, positive discrimination was better. Bad decision.

The Independent: "Supreme Court strikes down affirmative action,
banning colleges from factoring race in admissions"

---

Hardball.. Note they are cutting supply *specifically* for the US (and
for everyone to the west of the Suez apparently).

Bloomberg: "Saudi Arabia set to cut oil supply to US"

---

With 'private enterprise' anything is possible.. do a handshake, need
to count your fingers afterwards, they might have stolen a few

Business Insider: "Putin says he hopes Prigozhin and his Wagner
mercenaries 'didn't steal much' of the billions Russia spent on them"

---

"@egonw@scholar.social

I was just comparing the #clarivate 2022 citation data of JCheminform
and jcim, two central cheminformatics journals. The open science
journal is outperforming the hybrid journal on almost all fronts"

---

H2 View: Successful testing of high-pressure pure hydrogen pipeline in
China.. China Daily has reported China Oil & Gas Pipeline Network
Corp. (PipeChina) completed its first test on the pipeline at a
testing ground in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region in Northwest
China.

---

Any software company can be split, and not vertically (along different
competencies) either. They can be split horizontally, cutting across
all of its services. Any service can be split. Mastodon proved even a
social network, which people thought had to be owned by one
organization (uh, like due to 'network effect' or something) could be
split across many servers combined by a light protocol. What else can
be seperated this way? How about digital ad monopolies? 

---

"Two newly-announced projects add to a growing list of
hydrogen-propulsion partnerships in Northern Europe. In Boden, Sweden
and Duisburg, Germany, H2 suppliers and shipping companies have
announced additional initiatives to bring this green fuel to the
maritime market.

Swedish ferry operator Gotland Company announced Monday that it has
reached an offtake agreement with hydrogen producer H2 Green Steel
(H2GS). H2GS is the developer of a massive electrolyzer plant in
Boden, a town in northern Sweden. The 700 MW plant will be among the
largest in the world, and it will primarily supply a carbon-neutral
steel mill"

[[-]](https://maritime-executive.com/article/two-new-partnerships-show-promise-of-hydrogen-power-in-europe)

---

Ultra free-market fucknut is all about attention shift,
diversion. "Look over there, squirrel!" "covid! lockdowns! freedom!",
but they mean their bidness paymasters' freedom to pollute, encroach
on public land, money and well-being. Some will follow them thinking
the working class will benefit somehow until the point they find
themselves running on a treadmill being farmed for biodata,
electricity to mine bitcoins so they can pay their sky-high rent owned
by the Big Landlord.

---

Theories on UFOs, political assasinations help to keep the image of
all-powerful gov alive, shifting attn away from the private sector
towards the government. In most UFO mysteries there's always the
subtext "government knows more than they are telling you". Ok that's
scary brrr so I guess now I should buy me some guns help Bushmaster
make some money, be against all regulations help Norfolk Southern make
money, or any kind of busienss restriction so all businesses make even
more money. 🤨

---

Surprising if true

Jerusalem Post: "Israel has never been on the list"

---

Jerusalem Post: "UN Children and Armed Conflict report to blacklist
Russia, not Israel"

---

Informed Comment: "China adds 62 Gigawatts of Solar Capacity in Just 5
Months, Compared to 10 Gigs in the US"

---

WION: "Jaishankar says depth of India-Russia relations goes beyond
defense dependencies"

---

Framework Laptop, looks great, every piece in it is replaceable /
upgradable (quite a feature these days, when closed-off proprietary
systems rule the day), and Unix OS friendly.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/vx-Lggf2TXc?t=72)

---

"Hypx@mastodon.social

Spain raises bet on green hydrogen, biogas in draft plan.. Spain will
double its 2030 biogas production target and almost triple its green
hydrogen goal as part of a broad upgrade of its energy and climate
ambitions, a draft of the government's strategy showed on Wednesday"

---

Nikkei Asia: "Toyota Motor announced Monday that it will start
producing hydrogen in Thailand from November using biogas, a step
forward in its project with Thai conglomerate Charoen Pokphand Group
to utilize hydrogen to help decarbonize the country's transport sector"

---

"Backronym", fudging up an origin, meaning for word long after it has
been created, like "Wily Oriental Gentleman" for the Australian slang
word WOG.

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

The oil refinery in Schwedt, Germany, plans, together with the energy
company Enertrag, to gradually switch production from oil refining to
green #hydrogen and e-fuels. The first step with the production of
30,000 t/a is planned for 2027.

The region has a good renewable energy potential and furthermore, the
gas pipelines Eugal and Opal are available and they can be retrofitted
to green #hydrogen transport - plans for this have been revealed"

---

"SpaceX launches so far caused pollution equivalent to 17,000 car GHG
emissions in a year"

---

RNZ: "The prime minister and the largest ever delegation to travel to
China have been formally welcomed at the New Zealand embassy"

---

"@Downshift@mstdn.ca

North America’s first hydrogen passenger train runs from Montmorency
Falls in Quebec City to Baie-Saint Paul, and back every day"

<img width='340' src='https://i.cbc.ca/1.6890391.1687892526!/fileImage/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/16x9_780/coradia-ilint.jpg'/> 

---

CBC News: "Canada's first hydrogen train is taking passengers"

---

Wired: "[2023/04] The Search for Long Covid Treatments Takes a
Promising Turn..  Three years in, the pandemic mania has settled to a
rumbling hum.. thanks to vaccines and treatments.

The same can’t be said of long Covid, the mysterious, life-limiting
ailment that lingers on after an initial Covid infection... Estimates
of how many people have long Covid vary, but it’s been put as high as
around 65 million..

The idea that long Covid has different causes could go some way toward
explaining the sheer diversity of symptoms, which number up to 200"

---

MedicalXpress: "Novel drug could treat long COVID and prevent
re-infection"

---

"@mforester@rollenspiel.social

I've had the incredible experience of reviving a software project
after it's original creator has died.  There's probably only a single
person left in the world who relies on that software, but they managed
to find me and because it's open source, I was able to get it back
into working order"

---

Hellenic Shipping News: "Green hydrogen produced in Brazil may in the
future be exported competitively to the EU and US to make low-carbon
steel in decarbonized installations, according to speakers at the
Hydrogen Expo event in Rio de Janeiro. From 2030 onwards, the cost of
producing green hydrogen in Brazil is expected to fall significantly
from new projects’ startup levels...  The.. Expo is organized by the
Brazil-Germany Chamber of Commerce and Industry"

---

"A hydrogen pipeline carrying 2.5 million tonnes per year from the
Gulf to Europe would be feasible, according to a new study. RINA and
Afry carried out the study. Such a [transformative opportunity] would
unlock the Gulf’s potential to provide low-carbon hydrogen – green or
blue – to Europe"

[[-]](https://www.energyvoice.com/renewables-energy-transition/hydrogen/europe-hydrogen/511315/gulf-europe-hydrogen-pipe-feasible-consultants/)

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

More support for #hydrogen: 

South Africa, the Netherlands and Denmarkt start a fund with €1 bn to
support green #hydrogen projects in South Africa"

---

Let's say a mechanism to compute the area of a circle (given its
radius) is needed. Do we throw bunch of "data" of radius/area pairs to
a parrot learner and hope it spits back something approaching real
answer?  No.

Here is what you do; mentally take out a piece of the circle,

[Figure 1](infp1.jpg)

.. and other pieces like that, flip every other one place them side by
side

[Figure 2](infp2.jpg)

Again, mental exercise, we think 'if I made the pieces smaller does
that *approach* a known calculation?' Yes it does,

[Figure 3](infp3.jpg)

It approaches the area of a rectangle. We already know how to compute
that, height times width, $C/2 r$, $C$ is circumference, $C = 2 \pi
r$, area is $\pi r^2$. Boom.

We just used mental transformations (in complex problems the algebra
is more complex but still symbolic) to reach something simpler. That
final formula is the end-result, the fruit of science. The end-result
is fast to compute, and accurate. Simple manipulation w algebra,
geometry saved me from countless computations. This is how science is
done, through representations, mental transformations. 

---

Why is the neural net approach to AI is a big fat failure? They are
not following the proven method of science, even of pre-modern
science.. From get-go they compute stuff, and compute blindly. Science
uses representations, transformation, mental shortcuts so you *don't*
have to compute shit all the time. Practitioners of faux AI have it
backwards. 

---

Mariners - Ipirotiko (Balearic Ibiza Mix) \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Q_QGjnXW63k)

---

More resources, more munee

Peoples Dispatch: "[2022/12] US interference in the DR Congo has been
apparent since its independence, Musavuli added—in the assassination
of Patrice Lumumba, support given to the brutal regime of Mobuto Sese
Seko, the invasions of the 1990s and the subsequent peace talks, and
changes to the country’s constitution in 2006 to allow Joseph Kabila
to contest the election. 'In 2011, the US was one of the first
countries to recognize the results of the rigged elections..' Musavuli
said.

Three months later, the M23 uprising began. 'It is the same rebel
force over twenty years, with the same soldiers and the same
commanders, to serve the interests of Rwanda, which itself is a strong
US ally in the so-called War on Terror. And what are Rwanda’s
interests in the Congo- its land and its resources,' he added.

As such, 'the conflict in the DRC must not be seen as fighting between
a rebel group and the Congolese government.' This was reiterated by
activist and writer Claude Gatebuke, 'This is not an ordinary
rebellion. It is an invasion of the Congo by Rwanda and Uganda'"

---

All that cobalt, lithium is needed so you can enjoy your crooked
battery electric car not working over winter, after floods, and watch
it spontaneously combust once in a while

---

Researcher Kambale Musavuli: "[In Congo the killing civilians by
groups such as M23] is a tactic of displacement. Whenever you are
massacring civilians in public.. those things are to terrorize the
population. When it happens in your community tomorrow you are not
going to be in the same area because you are afraid. We have mass
displacement over [about] five million internally displaced
Congolose..  [and right after ppl leave a place] you see development
of mining concessions in that same area. Not only that, there is the
dispossession of land" \#AlJazeera

---

Toni Campo - Two Way Stretch \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/nzvRCVxOl44)

---

Janes: "[US] and India have announced agreements to accelerate defence
industrial co-operation including the potential joint production of
General Electric (GE) F414 engines for future combat aircraft"

---

No attention for Pence? Doesn't he love Jesus?

Arab News: "US evangelicals still all-in for scandal-plagued Trump"

---

\#coffee

[[-]](https://cdn.masto.host/mastodonstrangepartscom/media_attachments/files/110/602/290/598/045/899/small/f4d85ec6f1f38c33.jpeg)

---

I guarantee it during the short-lived bizarre attempt, centers of
responsibility in the West were shitting in their pants... 'Whats
gonna happen? What if someone crazy gets hold of the nukes? (they
already know Putin isn't)'. Nothing was going to happen, political
adversaries routinely get poisoned in Russia, they would have nuked
this stupid son of a bitch... But still the events gave people
scare. It all goes to prove the more this needless war lasts, the more
pain everyone will suffer. The people who triggered the non-sense need
to understand, this ain't like 2013 stirring little shit up in Ukraine
can "change" some stuff... It already changed for the worse thanks to
you. This clusterfuck is your fault. Time for a fix?

---

Wagner soldiers being more integrated into RU mil acting less like a
private company can be useful for Russian efforts in Ukraine (to the
chagrin of Ukraine). Privatization can pollute gov organizations.

---

Was the Iraq War partly done for Haliburton (former CEO was VP)? Does
the gov today get good advice from SecDef on Ukraine, not encouraging
towards continued fighting? More war would mean more profits for
Rayteon of which the Secretary was a former board member? Makes you
wonder.

---

*War Dogs* has some psyop in it.. Its main characters were small
contractors for the US military, the movie essentially said "see even
the little guy benefits from the wars somehow". At the same time they
were made to look like jackasses, so by the end you are probably
thinking "mil is probably better off with the big defense
contractors". Mission accomplished.

---

*Doomsday Meteor* looks like B-level, but a good one \#trailer

---

"As indicated in the [table..] the biggest financial beneficiaries of
the post-9/11 military spending surge have been major U.S.-based
weapons contractors.

<img width='340' src='milspend1.jpg'/> 

But weapons makers were far from the only beneficiaries. Companies
benefiting from the buildup of the past 20 years range from weapons
manufacturers like Raytheon and Lockheed Martin, to logistics and
reconstruction firms like Kellogg, Brown and Root (KBR) and Bechtel,
to armed private security contractors like Blackwater and Dyncorp. As
noted by Heidi Peltier in her analysis of the “camo economy,” roughly
half of the Pentagon budget—$370 billion in 2019 — went to military
contractors, for both war-related and ongoing peacetime activities"

[[-]](https://watson.brown.edu/costsofwar/files/cow/imce/papers/2021/Profits%20of%20War_Hartung_Costs%20of%20War_Sept%2013%2C%202021.pdf)

---

Doc And Richard Watson - Walk On Boy \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/zbV_iFD72zs)

----

All code used here is freely available on the same repo of this blog. The
`u.` calls assume `import util as u` which for each year's microblogging
archive is under `mbl/[year]/` e.g. for `eq_at` usage see this year's [code](https://github.com/muratk5n/thirdwave/blob/master/en/mbl/2023/util.py)
and look for `def eq_at`. 

---

"Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

DB Cargo (German Railway) is preparing for large-scale #hydrogen
transport/distribution.

They state that they can already transport 20 TWh of hydrogen via rail
today.

Germany is expected to require up to 110 TWh/a of hydrogen by 2030"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/110/598/723/184/463/364/small/784cb0a9ca6cb941.png'/> 

[[-]](https://mastodon.social/@Hy_Economy/110598723606367284)

---

Informed Comment: "Justice Samuel Alito Took Luxury Fishing Vacation
With GOP Billionaire Who Later Had Cases Before the Court"

---

The Wagner event likely wont effect the current UA-RU conflict 

---
