# Week 9

\#aljazeera \#marclamonthill

Daniel Ellsberg: "[If] Julian Assange.. is extradited and prosecuted
and convicted here [in US] we will have had the first instance of an
actual journalist having been imprisoned for putting out the
truth... No journalist has ever been put on trial thanks to our First
Amendment freedom of the press and freedom of speech which most
countries don't have as a law.  [That clause] will be essentially
rescinded if Julian Assange is successfully prosecuted"

---

The Atlantic: "[China covid death] estimates range from about 1
million to 1.5 million deaths, suggesting that, in absolute terms,
China may have suffered more fatalities from COVID in two months than
the U.S. did in three years"

---

Bloomberg: "First time in 52 years, world’s longest skating rink [The
Rideau Canal Skateway] to close due to global warming"

---

H2 View: "ArcelorMittal to receive €55m in funding for German
hydrogen-based steel production"

---

They should've played up the mystery little more.. story ended too
quickly. They can learn from the Americans. You do "is it, or isn't
it" for days then send in the attack submarine.

NYT: "Mystery Sphere on Japanese Beach Was Just a Buoy, Experts Say"

---

Bloomberg: "Germany, India to Boost Cooperation in Renewables,
Defense.. Germany and India agreed to partner on technology to make a
transition to renewable energy easier... The two sides also agreed to
step up cooperation on green hydrogen 'to achieve a socially just,
economically sustainable secure and affordable energy supply,'
according to a joint statement after the meeting"

---

H2 Central: "[Central Queensland, Oz] Palaszczuk Government Locks in
$1 Billion Fitzroy to Gladstone Pipeline, Unlocks Jobs In Renewable
Hydrogen and Manufacturing"

---

When did Erin F-ing Brokovich get involved in this? EB, as in the 2000
movie? Julia Roberts played her? She was on Tucker's show reporting on
the situation. Bad optics.

---

While Biden was in Ukraine, Trump was in the disaster area in Ohio,
distributing food, listening to people. During the 1992 campaign the
slogan "America needs a president who cares as much about the 'Middle
West as the Middle East'" was a good seller; a variation of that can
be in effect for 2024.

---
