# Week 38


Maritime Executive: "Hyundai Partnership Designs Hydrogen System for
Ship Transport"

<img width='340' src='https://maritime-executive.com/media/images/article/Photos/Vessels_Concepts/HD-Hyundai-LH2-carrier-concept.67bbdc.jpg'/> 

---

H2 Central: "TECO 2030 and Pherousa Green Shipping sign supply
agreement to realize ammonia powered zero-emission deep-sea
shipping. A 12 MW fuel cell system will be utilized for full
propulsion onboard each of the six vessels, enabling 100%
emission-free operations. Each vessel will be about 63,000-deadweight
tons and the first vessel is targeted for delivery Q1 2027"

---

There was no Big Bang. There are no black holes. The Sun is liquid,
not gaseous. The universe is not expanding.

For more, see [Junk Science](https://muratk5n.codeberg.page/en/0119/2018/09/junk-science.html).

---

Now NYT picked up on the story - the broken nature of the Standard
Model is reaching a wider audience.

NYT: "[09/02] The Story of Our Universe May Be Starting to Unravel..
According to the standard model, which is the basis for essentially
all research in [cosmology], there is a fixed and precise sequence of
events that followed the [supposed] Big Bang.. The Webb data, though,
revealed that some very large galaxies formed really fast, in too
short a time, at least according to the standard model. This was no
minor discrepancy. The finding is akin to parents and their children
appearing in a story when the grandparents are still children
themselves...

Two serious issues with the standard model of cosmology would be
concerning enough. But the model has already been patched up numerous
times over the past half century to better conform with the best
available data — alterations that may well be necessary and correct,
but which, in light of the problems we are now confronting, could
strike a skeptic as a bit too convenient...

Physicists and astronomers are starting to get the sense that
something may be really wrong. It’s not just that some of us believe
we might have to rethink the standard model of cosmology; we might
also have to change the way we think about some of the most basic
features of our universe — a conceptual revolution that would have
implications far beyond the world of science"

[[-]](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/02/opinion/cosmology-crisis-webb-telescope.html)

---

Sounds like a billionaire from 2023. \#1381 \#PeasantsRevolt

King Richard II: "You wretches detestable on land and sea: you who
seek equality with lords are unworthy to live. Give this message to
your colleagues: slaves you were, and slaves you are still; you will
remain in bondage, not as before, but incomparably harsher. For as
long as we live we will strive to suppress you, and your misery will
be an example in the eyes of posterity.'" via @HeavenlyPossum@kolektiva.social

---

"I'd do a lot better just giving all my money away because if I really
wanted to end crime, I should end poverty"

---

The truth! \#DC \#Batman

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1fCVATl_4XVFbfeu0IRTf6_aThtngmPsG)

---

*Dunkirk*, what bowl of crap. But stylishly so.. Vintage Nolan.

---

"@rxbrad@social.rxbrad.com

.. I'm a clinical pharmacist with over two decades of experience in a
large hospital setting. I actually know stuff about drugs.

When some online rando says that pharmaceutical companies are only out
for profits; and that they don't have the well-being of patients as
the forefront of their objectives...

checks notes

...that rando is right. Totally right. Pharmaceutical corporations
actually are the worst"

---

Changes of the past two weeks \#UA \#RU

```python
geo = [['Main'],['Andriivka','Klischchiivka'],['Bilohorivka','Verkhnokamianske'],
       ['Opytne'],['Bakhmut','Yahidne','Berkhivka'],['Novomykhailivka','Stepne','Marinka'],
       ['Synkivka','Kupiansk','Lyman Pershyi'],['Urozhaine','Staromaiorske'],['Robotyne','Novoprokpivka']]
       
u.sm_plot_ukr4('ukrdata/fl-0916.csv','ukrdata/fl-0830.csv',geo,3,3,zoom=0.03,fsize=(10,10),)
```

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1kmttGaHLExxC-hRkZeS5CMAex6jykPB4)

---
