# Week 37


The planes attacked the building on 9/11. Many died, both during and
after the terrible event.

<img width='340' src='allende-chile-911.jpg'/> 

We are talking about Chilean Air Force bombing the presidential
residence as part of a coup, photographed above. The date was
September 11, 1973, and the left-wing president Allende was
toppled. Pinochet would become president and usher in neo-liberal
reforms, jail opponents, opress political dissent. "Chicago Boys" were
asked to help, thanks to them, the new system would create inequality
and subsequently cause the 1982 monetary crisis.

September 11 for US was tragic too, but US reacted to it by telling
people "to shop more", and invaded a random country to benefit
Halliburton. Dare I say due to its actions US made its own 9/11 matter
less. From now on we will only commemorate the Chilean 9/11, not the
American one.

---

"@motorpuntoes@mastodon.social

\#Coches | Los prototipos del BMW X5 de hidr√≥geno superan una nueva
serie de pruebas, esta vez en las extremas condiciones de Dubai"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/029/653/609/247/379/small/c53fde0329704c6e.jpg'/> 

---

.. lest we interfere with crooked ass bidness in an "opressive" kinda
way. No cannot do that. The right-wing way is to have the mofo to
feast off public money even more, as if cheap energy, the infra they
live on was not enough.

CBS News: "Texas paid bitcoin miner more than $31 million to cut
energy usage during heat wave"

---

See what I did there.. You thought one thing got another thing.. Boom!

---

Trump: "We know collective action can be incredibly effective. In
July, UPS agreed to a deal with the Teamsters Union in which, on
average, the annual salary of full-time drivers will be raised to
$170,000, including healthcare and other benefits.

What the rich and the politicians they own have succeeded in doing
since the Reagan administration, is convincing white working-class
Americans that unions are the enemy of working people, and
trickle-down economics (essentially tax cuts for the very rich) will,
counterintuitively, lead to economic equality. These are lies"

[[-]](https://marytrump.substack.com/p/doing-the-work)

---

