# Week 49


Foreign Affairs: "Collective Punishment Won’t Defeat Hamas"

[[-]](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/israel/israels-failed-bombing-campaign-gaza)

---

"Dieselgate, but for trains"

[[-]](https://badcyber.com/dieselgate-but-for-trains-some-heavyweight-hardware-hacking/)

---

Matt Ferrell: "In the summer of 2023, the Rijnstate hospital of Elst,
The Netherlands opened its doors. What makes this particular campus
interesting is how it generates its energy... The building collects
energy from over 1,300 solar panels located on both the roof and the
ground floor. When there’s a surplus of solar, that energy goes toward
electrolysis, the splitting action that produces hydrogen. This then
allows for hydrogen fuel cells to kick in as a form of reserve power
when the sunnier supplies are low..

<img width='340' src='https://undecidedmf.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/image2.png'/> 

The Rijnstate isn’t the only hospital that integrated hydrogen into
its energy generation this year. Just recently, the Viamed San José
Hospital located in Murcia, Spain, installed a system that involves
powering the creation of hydrogen through its 289 solar panels. The
resulting hydrogen feeds into a boiler for space heating. Meanwhile,
the oxygen produced as a byproduct of the electrolysis is then
repurposed as a critical resource for medical procedures

That’s insanely cool. Those hospitals are good examples of how green
hydrogen is already getting used today..

A while back, I covered a new form of electrolyzer by the Australian
company Hysata. Its design is really promising, with an efficiency
rating jumping from about 75% to a whopping 95%..

There’s also Sparc Hydrogen, a collaboration between Sparc
Technologies, the University of Adelaide, Flinders University, and
Fortescue Future Industries.14 Unlike typical setups, Sparc’s hydrogen
production method doesn’t require an electrolyzer or electricity
pulled from renewable energy infrastructure. Instead, it’s based on
photocatalytic water splitting, or PWS"

---

SciTechDaily: “Over 12,000 participants, aged 45 to 74, were followed
for 20 years in the #Singapore Chinese #Health Study.. Higher caffeine
intake was associated with lower odds of physical frailty, regardless
of the source”

---

A rise in homelessness, same thing. If anything trickle-down economics
occurs only here - one percenter buys homes in excess snatching it
away from upper middle class, who do the same for middle class, down
and down it goes, and all of a sudden lower income person can't buy or
rent (rent price is a reflection of purchase price), ends up on
the streets. This is clear to see in the statistics, the modern
homeless isn't some random bum, half of these people are actually
employed!

---

Ergo "housing crisis" is not about shortage in overall housing. The
crisis is a reflection of the society's inequality, there are enough
homes but the rich are buying them, as investment, end most end up
with no affordable housing. Middle class buys bread, wealthy buy
assets. If they have too much money, distribution is skewed, there
will be a bubble in the prices of those assets.

---

Stevenson: "[2023/05] Most people in ordinary financial positions or poor
financial positions tend to spend all of their income over the course
of their life on goods and services. They generally die without any
accumulated assets, which means that they've spent everything on goods
and services. Ordinary people buy goods and services that drives
wages.  Rich people, on the other hand, especially very rich people,
tend to spend the majority of their income on buying more assets.

So that means if wealth inequality increases in society, ordinary and
poor people have less, rich and very rich people have more. Society as
a whole will start to want more assets and less goods and services.
And that is because we're moving purchasing power away from ordinary
people, who like goods and services, towards rich and very rich people
who like to buy assets.  So as inequality increases, asset prices
naturally go up.  Goods and services and wage prices naturally go
down.

But if you remember, our central banks are trying to ensure that goods
and services prices specifically keep going up at 2, 2.5, 3% a year.
Because we have rising inequality, those goods and services prices,
they want to go down because ordinary people who drive those prices
are losing their purchasing power. That means that for most of the
last 20, 30 years, central banks have been trying to convince ordinary
people to spend money by cutting their interest rates. But remember
those cutting interest rates, not only do they drive up ordinary
prices, they also drive up asset prices for the rich. But asset prices
for the rich are going up anyway, because the rich people are getting
more and more and more money.  So what's happening is this inequality
is driving down wages, driving down the price of goods and services,
and that forces action from central banks and governments, central
banks to cut interest rates, governments to spend more money to try
and support the economy. And a side effect of that is the rich get
even richer and asset prices go up even more.. so in a sense, what
you're seeing is another one of these.. death spirals of the economy"

---

Talking about death and despair in that uppity college voice.. kudos to
people who can sit through these news conferences. \#US \#spox

---

"@wilbr@glitch.social

The insult on top of the injury of Israel's genocide is that they're
proving conspiracy theorists right. I can hardly look around without
seeing a billionaire or media conglomerate or government bending over
backwards to support Israel or silence opposition. Critique of the
Israeli military is, according to the US House of Representatives,
anti-Jewish, despite being false on its face. All our allies and the
UN are giving Israel free reign to do whatever it wants with only weak
protest"

---

Siasat Daily: "Abu Dhabi launches first hydrogen-powered taxi.. This
taxis will refuel at the region's first high-speed green hydrogen
pilot fueling station in Masdar City"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.siasat.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Abu-Dhabi-hydrogen-taxi-780x470.jpg'/> 

---

Al Monitor: "COP28 President.. announced a deal to cut methane
emissions from the fossil fuel industry, with ExxonMobil and Saudi
Arabia's state-owned oil firm Aramco being among the 50 businesses
that signed up"

---

We need to stop seeing excessive wealth accumulation as something
'benign'. Even if money does not trickle down (and it won't), the
money will be used to buy assets which poses a big problem for regular
people.

---

"French hydrogen project developer Lhyfe has announced plans to build a
800MW green H2 project in Lubmin, Germany"

---

Imagine giving an alien living in a completely different physical
environment all the text ever written by mankind, us. They decipher
the text, are able to read it. But would they, without seeing any of
the physical environment that gave rise to that text, understand what
it is to be human? They cannot. "I woke up saw the garden, walked in
the hills". If the aliens were non-solid, aethereal beings living in a
f-ing plasma mist, they could not get that reference. They'd put it
together, match it with other references of that kind, but they would
not truly know what it is meant on that text. Language is code. We
communicate *through* that code. Code signifies, is a shorthand for
something larger that is not present in that text, the
whole human experience.

---

JH is the creator of the ULMFiT on which all modern language models
are based.

---

Hah.. Jeremy Howard basically says of LLM tech "u ain't gettin
advanced AI w this shit". Development apparently stagnated already
even with the farcical parameters ppl judge these things meaning the
future does not look good. Improvements now resemble an S curve rather
than an exponential. If you sank money in this field you are
fukked.

---

.. if you can find real wasabi that is.. 95% wasabi out there is fake,
made with horseradish.

WION: "Japan's traditional spice Wasabi has potential memory-boosting
properties: Study"

---

Politico: "Russian oil price cap has largely failed, new report
finds.. An analysis shared with POLITICO reveals that sanctions
cheats, gaping loopholes and widespread circumvention mean oil
revenues are still filling Moscow’s war chest"

---

CNBC: "Swiss bank Banque Pictet admits hiding $5.6 billion of
Americans' money from IRS.. Banque Pictet agreed to pay about
122.9 million as part of an agreement with U.S. prosecutors"

---

Al Monitor: "Qatar emir slams 'shameful' inaction on Gaza war"

---

Informed Comment: "This is a War on Children, and 'Safe Zones' are Death Traps: UNICEF"

\#Gaza

---

Arab News: "France calls at UN for ‘a truce leading to a ceasefire’ in
Gaza"

---

The Times of Israel: "Achieving the 'total destruction of Hamas' would
mean 'the war will last 10 years,' Macron said at a press conference
on the sidelines of the UN’s COP28 climate talks in Dubai"

---

NYT: "The U.S. says Israel must do more to protect civilians. Experts see
little change."

---

Neocons, US militarism, Israeli Likud party, all there. All serving
the interests of the private war lobby..

Hossein-Zadeh: "[2006] Huntington’s theory of 'the clash of
civilizations' is essentially a subtle version of Richard Perle’s
strategy of 'de-contextualization.'  Perle, a leading neoconservative
militarist (and a prominent advisor of the Likud Party, the hard-line
Zionist party of Prime Minister Arial Sharon of Israel) coined the
term 'de-contextualization' as a way to explain both the desperate
acts of terrorism in general and the violent tactics of the
Palestinian resistance to occupation in particular. He argued that in
order to blunt the widespread global criticism of the Israeli
treatment of Palestinians, their resistance to occupation must be
decontextualized; that is, we must stop trying to understand the
territorial, geopolitical, and historical reasons that some groups
turn to terrorism. Instead, he suggested, the reasons for the violent
reactions of such groups must be sought in the arenas of culture
and/or religion—in the Islamic way of thinking. Like the 'clash of
civilizations' theory, decontextualization strategy has been part of a
well-orchestrated effort to divert attention from the root causes of
terrorism and attribute it to 'pathological problems of the Muslim
mind'"

---

"Masdar and PLN.. announced green hydrogen projects to go along with
their floating solar plans"

<img width='340' src='https://cleantechnica.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/floating-solar-masdar-pln-indonesia-800x445.jpg'/> 

---

Beyond the illegality issue the main problem is the fundamental
weaknesses of this tech. It cannot be scaled up, must be handled with
kid gloves (read: high TCO) and even at its best comes with massive
range issues when deployed on cars.

ABC Australia: "There are growing calls for batteries to be declared
dangerous goods as illegally dumped lithium ion batteries are causing
nearly 40 fires a day at recycling facilities and landfills"

---

Stevenson's take on money: if I loan you 100 dollars, how much money
do you have? Some say 100, this is wrong.  Add assets and liabilities,
you end up with zero. You have 100 but you owe me 100, you have zero
dollars. All money is printed by Central Banks, and loaned to
individual banks.  It's their debt, central bank's credit. If we add
all debts and all credits in a system at any point in time it always
adds up to zero. This is how the modern money system is
constructed. It follows that if a certain section of the economy is
saddled with too much debt, another part of econ must have accumulated
too much money.

---

The graph below is somewhat different than GINI, but catches
interesting patterns. It suggests ineq has been getting worse since
90s (and likely 80s, no data there) save for a few brief downticks
it kept increasing and the bad state has recently solidified.

---

Percentage of Wealth Held by Top 10%. Around 69%.. Bottom 50%
holds <3% of the assets. Looks unequal.

[[-]](../../2021/01/stats.html#top10)

---

Inequality leads the 1% buying more and more assets, their price
skyrockets. Eventually the rich end up buying assets the middle class
could use who are priced out of the market. They do that bcz this
is how they spend their money, lower income folk spend on goods and
services (shows up in CPI), the rich buy assets. GS solution, fix
inequality, tax the wealthy on their assets. Money does not represent
absolute level, it represents a distribution. Middle class can get
extra 1000 and be happy but if some get millions via subsidies, easy
credit, bailouts, comparatively speaking middle class is losing money.

---

Good points by former Citibank trader Gary Stevenson on the problems
with the current econ. 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/ViY-zI3b5JQ?t=2150)

---

"Banksters: HSBC, the Untouchable Titan of Global Finance"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/twdydeMPIeE?t=261)

---

\#Subsidy \#BritishRail

[[-]](https://youtu.be/VN5DXjHWf4Q?t=73)

---

Conflicts with the Army Chief Zalushny, the previous President, now this..
Current gov's critics are increasing in number.

Yahoo News: "Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko has told Der Spiegel that
Ukraine is moving towards authoritarianism, seemingly making a veiled
criticism of President Volodymyr Zelensky"

---

Venezuella referandum on annexing neighboring Guyana.. [Here's](https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/exxon-raises-guyana-resource-estimate-after-new-discovery-2021-10-07)
an earlier share about Guyana's oil major find. Exxon is there, and
the consortium also includes China. Even Cuba seems to be against any
annexation.

---

NYT: "Vice President Kamala Harris said on Saturday that the United
States fiercely opposes forcibly relocating Gaza residents outside the
enclave..

She also rejected an idea suggested recently by some Israeli officials
that the borders of Gaza could shrink after the war is over to
accommodate a security 'buffer zone' between the interior of Gaza and
Israel. The statement said the United States would not permit 'the
redrawing of the borders of Gaza.'..

'Palestinians need a hopeful political horizon, economic opportunity
and freedom. And the region more broadly must be integrated and
prosperous. And we must work toward that'"

---

Munee, give us mo muneeeee

Politico: "Pentagon: US arms industry struggling to keep up with China"

---

The dubious 'Hamas beheading' news during Oct 7 attack apparently
started in French BFM TV who took the news from Israeli i24news
channel. And what a coincidence, both channels are owned by the
Israeli businessman Patrick Drahi.

---

Euractiv: "The EU's Hydrogen Bank has begun operations.. By 2030,
Europe wants to produce 10 million tonnes of renewable hydrogen
annually. To get companies to switch, Brussels is footing the
difference between their ability to pay and the high prices charged by
producers of clean-burning gas"

---

"@EU_Commission@respublicae.eu

Hydrogen is going to be a key technology to decarbonise Europe's
industry and help meet our climate targets.  Today, we've launched the
first auction under the European Hydrogen Bank to support the
production of renewable hydrogen in Europe"

---

"@gdeihl@spore.social

Thacker Pass, Nevada, is a place where a massive lithium mine is
taking place. It runs over the human rights of Native American tribes
in the area, displaced decades ago by genocide and forced retreat to
reservations on land thought to be of no value. Now these people,
among the poorest in the US, are being abused again. In addition to
mining's traditional destruction, one ton of lithium requires 500,000
gallons of water to harvest"

---

"Cambridge researchers' device can turn contaminated water or seawater
into clean hydrogen and purified water, anywhere in the world.. [The
researchers] deposited a photocatalyst on a nanostructured carbon mesh
that is a good absorber of both light and heat, generating the water
vapour used by the photocatalyst to create hydrogen. The porous carbon
mesh, treated to repel water, served both to help the photocatalyst
float and to keep it away from the water below, so that contaminants
do not interfere with its functionality.

In addition, the new device uses more of the Sun's energy. 'The
light-driven process for making solar fuels only uses a small portion
of the solar spectrum - there's a whole lot of the spectrum that goes
unused,' said [one researcher]"

---

Ethiopia is landlocked which is a big problem for them. If there
was proactive conflict resolution there would be mechanisms to
ensure ETH sea access. 

BBC: "Ethiopia is abuzz with rumours of a new war .. As well as
importing weapons and mobilising his army, [PM] Mr Abiy.. has been
saying that access to the sea is an existential question... Ethiopia's
most obvious target is the Eritrean Red Sea port of Assab, which was
part of Ethiopia until Eritrean independence more than 30 years ago"

---

Another movie of his *The Dictator* belittles Middle Eastern
countries, supports the view that ppl living in such places along with
their dictators are backward losers. This will lead to the thought
well bomb the shit out of them why not, with, you know, our very
latest awesome new Motherbomber 2040+. The last part the viewer had to
infer himself obvously but hey, leave some stuff to the
imagination. Such is art.

---

Sacha BC is a shitlib, it makes sense. Shitlibs are Woke, pro-Zionist,
and anti-Russian, which helps the private industrial complex (more
animosity more bombs more money). Woke shifts the discussion from the
economy, gaslights away from extreme inequality, Russia Russia Russia,
Hamas Hamas Hamas helps with weapon sales... This ideology is
manufactured from ground up for the interests of the war lobby.

---

He plays a person from "Kazakhistan" but the type is generally from
Caucuses, Eurasian looking.. Shown as brash, crass, little stupid -
not much different from how Russians were portrayed in US movies for
decades.

---

Borat movies are anti-Russian propaganda

---

Did not watch the debate hosted by Cardigan Shananigan for Newsom-RDS,
no.  I'm sure it was interesting.. I read some excerpts tho - "we have
one thing in common.. neither of us will be the nominee for our party
in 2024”. 

---

TDB: "[F]ive weeks after Mike Johnson was elected speaker, and nearly
eight weeks since the attack, Congress doesn’t appear any closer to
passing an aid package—for Israel or for Ukraine, the latter of which
has been 'weeks' away from running out of weapons for months now"

---

Al Jazeera J Bays made a good point, Lula / Brasil put
forward a UNSC resolution weeks ago to halt Gaza violence, US vetoed
it. Then 29 days later they allowed a similar resolution by
abstaining. In those 29 days there were thousands of additional
deaths.

---
