# Week 44

Politico: "Sam Bankman-Fried was found guilty on seven criminal counts
of fraud and conspiracy by a federal jury in lower Manhattan... Now,
much of the rest of the industry is facing its own legal showdowns
with the government"

---

Still chillax.. R&R.. layin lo, hey ho

---

"josef@jk@mastodon.social

me: so whats the prognosis

doctor: well. lets put it this way. you're full of microplastics and
teflon. like everyone in your generation youve been exposed to so much
BPA, talc asbestos, aspartame, and volatile organic IKEA offgassing
compounds that you have, to use the medical term, transformed, into
what we could call, to use the medical term, a 'cryptid'"

---

Politico: "Senate Republicans introduce a climate bill [that] aims to
protect U.S. companies from cheap imports from countries that lack
robust greenhouse gas regulations"

---

"@panda@freiburg.social

two days into using @organicmaps -> did use Google Maps only to check
food reviews ;) For all the rest I used #OrganicMaps :)"

---

Reuters: "[Uber and Lyft] will pay a combined $328 million to settle
claims by New York's attorney general that the ride-sharing companies
systematically cheated drivers out of pay and benefits. Attorney
General Letitia James said Uber will pay 290 million and Lyft will pay
38 million to resolve her office's multi-year investigation into the
companies, calling it the largest wage theft settlement in her
office's history"

---

Lab-leak theory does not blemish government exactly - elected gov did
its job, Bama admin wanted GoF research shelved. Dr. Luigi did not
follow orders.

---

WION: "A lab in Montana, United States under acclaimed American
immunologist Dr Anthony Fauci was reportedly experimenting with
coronaviruses brought from a lab in China's Wuhan which is thought to
be the source of the Covid pandemic by some. The revelation was made
after a research paper published in the journal Viruses in 2018
resurfaced which revealed the existence as well as the nature of
experiments conducted there"

---

The theory below is not senseless, say Pals are pushed out of Gaza,
the PA had no authority there anyway, they go to West Bank. Israel
needs space, the settlers in WB and new ones can be directed towards
Southern Syria. US would cut Iran off from Syria more efficiently, and
along with Israelis obtain a supply line from the sea all the way
towards the Kurds in Northeast Syria.

---

Al Jazera: "Israel air raids kill eight soldiers in southern Syria:
State media.. Israel’s army says the attack from the occupied Golan
Heights is a response to earlier rocket fire from Deraa"

---

Al Jazera: "[08/30] The clashes that took place between Arab clans and
the Syrian Democratic Forces in Deir Az Zor countryside are among the
worst in recent years... a local journalist living [there], told Al
Jazeera the clashes reminded him of the violence that had transformed
the Syrian uprising in 2011 into an all-out war"

---

One month ago US-aligned SDF (Kurds from NE Syria) started attacking
some Arab tribes in the southeast already (see [map](https://newlinesinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/20220712-Syria-NA.png)),
that would be the other end of the sought-after block, allegedly. Americans
already hold the middle piece at al Tanf, and the region is
infested with Isis, who are good friens of Israel / US industrial-complex.
Moreoever, theory continues, the PA is in on it.

---

Theories are legion on recent Pal-Israel conflict. One says ISR will
use opportunity to take southern Syria and connect to Syrian
Kurds. 

---

TASS: "US, Israel mulling options for deploying peacekeepers to Gaza if Hamas
routed"

---

Forbes: "Turquoise Hydrogen Producers Could Capture Flourishing
Graphite Market.. Turquoise, like blue hydrogen, relies on natural
gas, but it uses a production pathway called methane pyrolysis.

Pyrolysis takes the natural gas 'methane molecule' (CH4) and splits it
into hydrogen and solid carbon. The result is black gold, carbon
powder that can be transformed into synthetic graphite, an
increasingly lucrative critical mineral"

---

"@mcc@mastodon.social

Fascinating both for what it says about dev & what it says about
statistics:

A gamedev realized [free open-source] Linux users were just 5.8% of
their sales, but represented 38% of bug reports.

Then they looked at those numbers closer, and realized. Linux users
were not experiencing more bugs. Almost none of the Linux-user bugs
were Linux-related. Linux users were simply *more likely to file
bugs*.

Their conclusion: A linux port pays for itself bc it nerdsnipes ppl
into giving u free QA"

---

The Guardian: "Top UN official in New York steps down citing
'genocide' of Palestinian civilians . He said that the UN had failed
to prevent previous genocides against the Tutsis in Rwanda, Muslims in
Bosnia, the Yazidi in Iraqi Kurdistan and the Rohingya in Myanmar and
wrote: '.. we are failing again.. The current wholesale slaughter of
the Palestinian people, rooted in an ethno-nationalist colonial
settler ideology, in continuation of decades of their systematic
persecution and purging, based entirely upon their status as Arabs …
leaves no room for doubt.' Mokhiber added: 'This is text book case of
genocide'"

---

WION: "After Jordan, Bahrain recalls ambassador to Israel, cuts
economic ties"

---

\#202310 \#Howley \#Ukraine

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/vnJZ29OtpZY?start=1&end=53)

---

NYT: "Ukraine’s Top Commander Says War Has Hit a 'Stalemate'.. In a
candid assessment, Gen. Valery Zaluzhny said no 'beautiful
breakthrough' was imminent"

---

Arab News: "Bolivia severs diplomatic ties with Israel as Chile and
Colombia recall their ambassadors"

---

Politico: "Egypt’s envoy to Brussels accuses West of pro-Israel bias"

---

\#Inflation \#Profits

[[-]](https://mastodon.world/@jeffowski/111320291423756289)

---

CNN: "They went hunting for fossil fuels. What they found could help
save the world.. When tw﻿o scientists went looking for fossil fuels
beneath the ground of northeastern France, they did not expect to
discover something which could supercharge the effort to tackle the
climate crisis... A couple of hundred meters down, the probe found low
concentrations of hydrogen"

---

Saw commercial for BEV car insurance - if u get stuck they'll tow ur
car to the next charging station. You know youre gonna need it with
that shit tech.

----

UConn: "Creating a Corsi-Rosenthal Box/Do-It-Yourself air purifier is
as easy as ordering a 20" box fan, four MERV13 air filters, and a roll
of duct tape"

[[-]](https://indoorairquality.initiative.uconn.edu/build-your-own/)

<img width='340' src='https://indoorairquality.initiative.uconn.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/3533/2022/12/Corsi_Infographic.jpg'/> 

---

@WWBugs@mstdn.social

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency research testing of
do-it-yourself ‘Corsi-Rosenthal Box’ indoor air filters shows they are
99% effective in removing airborne virus.

---

"@dromografos@social.dromografos.report

Belgian transport unions refuse to load and unload weapons going to
Israel (both via ports and airports) and call for an immediate
ceasefire"

---

"The Russian offensive to take the eastern city of Avdiivka threatens
to become another 'meat grinder' like the famous World War II battle
of Rzhev [or Bakhmut]"

---

\#UShealthcare

[[-]](https://mastodon.world/@jeffowski/111321557437391347)

---

"@davidbrin@mastodon.social

It's sinking in to oligarch owners of the GOP that a re-invigorated
IRS will uncover decades of hidden tax avoidance and things far, far
worse. Hence THE objective... will be to slash that IRS budget"

---

Christopher Blackwell: "I'm an incarcerated journalist. Today Securus,
a predatory prison communication co, silenced journalists. With no
warning they deleted all drafts of writing. Years of work. Manuscripts.
Articles.  Everything gone. We're no longer able to save drafts. Now
near impossible to write"

---

The Chaser: "'Don’t talk about gun control after a mass shooting' says
country always in the aftermath of a mass shooting" 

---

AA: "Scientists suggest that using Black Sea's hydrogen sulfide for
green hydrogen, can provide clean energy production benefit
environmental health.. [Scientist] explained that hydrogen sulfide,
meanwhile, contains sulfur as well as hydrogen, and procedures such as
electrolysis, thermal, catalytic, and photocatalytic separation can be
used to produce the fuel. He added that for an energy type to be
considered green, it needed to be produced without using fossil fuels
and without emitting greenhouse gasses like carbon.

'These methods make it possible to separate hydrogen sulfide to obtain
both hydrogen and sulfur. These emission-free projects are crucial for
the health of the Black Sea. You will rehabilitate the Black Sea,
improve the ecosystem, increase biodiversity; this is an unparalleled
opportunity and chance,' he said.

'We did the math, and if we separate it using electrolysis methods,
there's the potential to obtain 270 million tons of green hydrogen and
4.3 billion tons of sulfur. The current annual consumption of hydrogen
in the world is 118 million tons, and sulfur consumption is 85-90
million tons'"

---

Politico: "Mitch McConnell is abandoning his typically cautious style
when it comes to aiding Ukraine, shrugging off potshots at his
leadership and expending political capital for the embattled country
despite a painful rift in the party.

McConnell is at odds with new Republican Speaker Mike Johnson, who
wants to split off Israel aid from Ukraine funding rather than pass a
sweeping national security package. And the Senate GOP leader faces
brewing discontent within his own conference, which is buzzing over
whether to stick with McConnell or side with conservatives who want a
strategy change on Ukraine"

---

Oil Price: "A technique called flash joule heating at Rice University
can convert plastic waste, even unsorted and unwashed, into clean
hydrogen and valuable graphene. If sold at just 5% of its market
value, the graphene produced could make the hydrogen essentially free,
provided the process is powered by renewable energies"

---

No the support is to maintain the illusion of empire - it's the
illusion of empire on the cheap.  For domestic audience it looks like
"a hard choice" that doesn't hurt your citizens directly, in a far
flung part of the world that didn't necessitate much attention except
the occasional massive aid package that your own industry would feed
off anyway, and the random veto on the UN Security Council. This is
the illusion of empire. 

"Is US die-hard support for Israel because it is Empire?"

---

Doctorow: "Facebook's metaverse pivot has thus far cost the company
46,500,000,000 [dollars]. That is: $46.5 billion. That's even more
money than Uber torched, seeking to maintain the illusion that they
will be able to create monopolies on both transport and the labor
market for driving and recoup the billions the Saudi royal family let
them use for the con: Don't worry: the Saudi royals are fine! They
cashed out at the IPO, collecting a tidy profit at the expense of
retail investors who assumed that a pile of shit as big as Uber must
have a pony under it, somewhere.. Uber has doubled the cost of rides
and halved drivers' wages, using illegal gimmicks like 'algorithmic
wage discrimination' to squeeze a little more juice out of the nearly
exhausted husks of its workforce:

But Stein's Law hasn't been repealed. Drivers can't drive for
sub-subsistence wages. Do that long enough and they'll literally
starve: that's what 'subsistence' means. We lost a decade of transit
investment thanks to the Uber con, at the same time as traditional
taxi drivers were forced out of the industry.. Which means we're at
the point where you can get off a commuter train at a main station and
find yourself stranded: no taxis at the taxi-queue, no busses due for
an hour, and no Uber cars available unless you're willing to pay $95
for a ten-minute ride in a luxury SUV (why yes, this did happen to me
recently, thanks for asking)"

[[-]](https://pluralistic.net/2023/10/30/markets-remaining-irrational/)

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Jericho Energy Ventures Teams Up With Superior Boiler
To Produce Zero-Emission DCC (TM) Hydrogen Boilers"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/cache/preview_cards/images/021/961/815/original/ffc91a123c7f3452.png'/> 

---

\#Offices

[[-]](https://chaos.social/@leyrer/111318195685736085)

---

Missed me already.. ok here's little something, still chillax

---
