# Week 29

Politico: "House prices have risen by over 70 percent in the last 30
years — currently rising faster than incomes — and many low-income
households now spend 40 percent of their earnings on rent alone. These
high costs are exacerbating inequality"

---

TASS: "US ready to sacrifice Ukrainians to fill pockets of its arms
industry — Iran’s leader"

---

"Belgian PM: NATO shouldn’t get involved in Russia’s war in Ukraine"

---

H2 Central: "The global market for ammonia is poised to triple in the
coming decades with nearly all of the growth coming from low-carbon
ammonia, a new analysis by S&P Global Commodity Insights
says.. Decarbonization policies, including incentives in the
U.S. Inflation Reduction Act and the EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment
Mechanism, are transforming the economic fundamentals of low-carbon
ammonia.

The.. report says that the potential use of low-carbon ammonia as a
marine bunker fuel, industry feedstock and as a carrier for hydrogen
used in power generation represents a profound shift for the
industry—from one geared primarily towards fertilizer production to
one driven by energy markets.

---

China's government computers run on a modified version of Linux AFAIK.
They did not trust US commercial OS products (nor they should).

---

This path gives the developing world a chance to compete as well.. If
CPU cores hit an upper limit, possible to increase processing via
parallelization. The energy from now would be behind that and
openness.

---

Open source hardware, open source microprocessor architecture... Ain't that grand?

EE Times: "The RISC-V instruction set architecture (ISA) is one of the
most notable contenders to emerge in the ever-evolving realm of
computer architecture. Because of its modularity, RISC-V provides more
flexibility and customization possibilities than the ARM and x86 ISAs,
and it requires no license fees. The open-source ISA, which started in
2010 as part of the Parallel Computing Laboratory (Par Lab) at the
University of California, Berkeley, is now being used in more than 10
billion CPU cores in the market and continues on an aggressive growth
path..

<img width='340' src='https://tse4.mm.bing.net/th?id=OIP.LciCAqAS8VwUzHcIQw9AFAHaDz&pid=Api'/> 

RISC-V is set to follow the same path as Linux, whose development
community has made contributions over the years that have expanded the
open-source operating system’s functionality and market. Similarly,
developers in the RISC-V ecosystem are working together to create ISA
and non-ISA specifications that leverage the advantages offered by
RISC-V. Many companies have started developing products based on
RISC-V and are targeting use cases from analog intellectual property
(IP) and formal verification to GPU vector cores"

---

H2 Central: "PSM, Thomassen Energy and Hanwha Power Systems, jointly
and in collaboration with Hanwha portfolio peer companies in Korea,
shattered an industry record, successfully operating a Frame 7E gas
turbine with a 60% hydrogen blend. The turbine ran at baseload
condition, dry, achieving single-digit ppm emissions of oxides of
nitrogen (NOx) and carbon monoxide (CO), an industry first"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

Nel ASA: Receives Purchase Order for 16 Hydrogen Fueling Stations to
California"

---

The Drive: "[Battery] EVs Are Piling Up on Dealer Lots as Supply
Outpaces Demand"

---

SciTechDaily: "Scientists from the University of Kansas and the
U.S. Department of Energy’s Brookhaven National Laboratory have made
significant progress towards separating hydrogen and oxygen molecules
to produce pure hydrogen.. Blakemore and his collaborators made the
discovery by studying a catalyst that is based on a
pentamethylcyclopentadienyl rhodium complex"

---

Reuters: "Toyota targets Europe, China in hydrogen sales pivot"

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

German \#hydrogen pipeline network:

- The German core \#hydrogen pipeline network is planned to be 11,200
  km long.

- More than 50% of the planned core network is supposed to consist of
  retrofitted natural gas pipelines" via NTV

---

Reuters: "UAE's revised energy strategy includes big hydrogen
plans.. The United Arab Emirates aims to produce 1.4 million tonnes of
hydrogen annually by 2031 and expects the figure to increase tenfold
to 15 million by 2050, an energy ministry official said on Tuesday"

---

H2 Central: "New Deloitte Report – Emerging Green Hydrogen Market Set
to Help Reshape Global Energy Map by End of Decade, Creating US$1.4
Trillion Market By 2050"

---

Reuters: "India in talks to supply green hydrogen to EU, Singapore...
a possible deal [is] to supply more than 11 million metric tons a
year"

---

*300 Rise of an Empire* - a perfect psyop if there was one. The Greeks
are fighting for "democracy" and the other side, "the Persians", are
of course for autocracy.  Forget the fact that the Greeks of the era
were not a true democracy -they had widespread slavery- but
whatever. "Persians" were painted as visibly Middle Eastern looking
(wink wink, such people are your target) in the hopes that the lazy
fat fuck on his La-z-boy could directly / subliminally be brainwashed
against them and as a bonus Persia is today's modern Iran. Lena Headey
was in it, but she did not get a doggy - biggest bummer of all.

---

The Dutch Research Council NWO: "30 projects will receive a financial
boost of up to EUR 50,000. This second round is particularly intended
for project proposals aimed at further developing open science in
fields or disciplines where it is not yet the norm, or projects that
promote open science in a large group or community. This round is also
intended for project proposals that promote collaboration between
different organisations and disciplines and between academic and
support staff. The awarded projects cover a broad spectrum of new open
science practices across all scientific disciplines"

---

Flashbaxx - Voodoo Therapy \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/sv4zkpXTPZk)

---

"@aral@mastodon.ar.al

Stop anthropomorphising billionaires"

---

\#plastic

[[-]](https://media.mas.to/masto-public/media_attachments/files/110/700/657/699/072/486/original/2319faaf85329bc1.jpg)

---

Merge Of Equals - Hot Rain \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/8nyIH2-zQY8)

---

If UN could not back up its proposal with action, why did they go to
Russia with it in the first place?

---

???

Al Jazeera: "Russia halts participation in Ukraine grain
deal.. Kremlin says its conditions for extending deal brokered by the
UN and Turkey had not been fulfilled. A key Russian demand has been
for the Russian Agricultural Bank..to be reconnected to the SWIFT
international payments system"

---

Reuters: "[07/12] UN asks Putin to extend Black Sea grain deal in
return for SWIFT access ..."

---

Still on vacation...

---

Frenemy, eyeing the Russians at the same time looking at that
mouth-watering UA land that could perhaps be considered "historically
Polish".

---

Is Poland friend, enemy or both?

---

RT: Poland wants Ukraine to admit guilt for Nazi-linked WWII massacre

[[-]](https://www.rt.com/news/579598-polish-parliament-ukraine-guilt/)

---

TFI Global: "Poland is Covertly Setting Up a Reparation Battle with Ukraine"

---

The grid is an [inefficient](../../2022/01/wirespipes_01.png) way to distribute power. 

Ars Technica: "Congested transmission lines cause renewable power to
go to waste in Texas..  The report describes an 'almost doubling of
congestion' on the ERCOT grid from 2020 to 2021 and estimated the
value of energy that could not reach Texas consumers due to crowded
transmission lines in 2022 at $2.8 billion"

---

Scifi *Continuum* had some good politics digs, the future depicted has
a Corporate Congress, like an actual Congress controlled by actual
CEOs serving on it. The CEOs of top 20 corporations automatically get
to become a member, and make laws. OMG! What were the writers trying
to say..! 🤔 What kind of allegory is this?

---

"The LLMentalist Effect: how chat-based Large Language Models replicate
the mechanisms of a psychic’s con"

[[-]](https://softwarecrisis.dev/letters/llmentalist/)

---

Russia had already lost the Baltic Sea (hence the importance placed on
Ukraine, the Black Sea), Finland and Sweden joining NATO would not
change that dynamic that much IMHO. On the downside for UA the joining
would raise the importance of the region even more for Russia.

---

OCJ: "Hydrogen, nuclear among winners in last-minute changes to Ohio
budget bill"

---

BTW "Ivan make basket" movie line should not give the impression
Russki is all about offense, this is just a joke building on a certain
stereotype... Quite the opposite, the Russki is the m.f..ing **king**
of defense. They burned down the entire city of Moscow in 1812 to deny
it to Napoleon.

[[-]](https://medium.com/exploring-history/the-1812-invasion-of-russia-the-burning-of-moscow-and-the-fall-of-napoleon-14db7f42f507)

---

NYT: "After Suffering Heavy Losses, Ukrainians Paused to Rethink
Strategy.. Early in the counteroffensive, Ukraine lost as much as 20
percent of its weapons and armor"

---

Jason Hickel: "The climate crisis reveals that our civilization has
never really been organized around science, contrary to the usual
Enlightenment narrative. It is organized around capital. Science is
embraced when it serves the interests of capital, and is often ignored
when it does not"

---

Mouse Trap

[[-]](https://kolektiva.social/system/media_attachments/files/110/692/857/836/735/478/original/93b8b052b3fa77d2.jpg)

---

F24: "US intelligence finds Iran not currently pursuing nuclear weapons"

---

They are mad their beloved feudal fascist slave empire Rome had
collapsed by then. There were bunch of "little states" afterwards,
ugh... Ditto for Victorians who had their empire too similar to Rome,
a singular source of order, unlike that "mess" that was the Middle
Ages.

"@natania@mastodon.world

Just your friendly reminder that the Middle Ages were not

1) a sepia toned wasteland of filth

2) completely void of education or reason

3) relegated only to Europeans

4) a guaranteed death sentence by the age of 35

5) a culture solely defined by the Church 

6) full of torture devices..

We have the Victorians to thank for so much of this, and then
Hollywood came in and was like 'let's make it worse!'"

---

[Link](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1OildXJjAx6x8YQB9Vk0m1KnEca91-I6a)

---

Some in the Congress are being a bitch for bidness

NYT: "Blocked Rail Crossings Snarl Towns, but Congress Won't
Act.. Freight trains frequently block roads nationwide, a phenomenon
that local officials say has grown steadily worse in the last decade
as railroads run longer trains and leave them parked on tracks at
crossings. The blockages can turn school drop-offs into
nightmares... The problem has persisted despite numerous federal,
state and local proposals and laws because the freight rail industry
wields enormous political and legal power.. No federal laws or rules
penalize railways for blocking crossings, and congressional proposals
to address the issue have failed to overcome opposition from the rail
industry"

---

Mother Jones: "If you’ve eaten a burger and fries recently, there’s a
chance that the potatoes were picked by middle schoolers in Idaho. The
United States is experiencing a sharp rise in child labor violations,
especially in the nation's food sector"

---

Researcher Sarahanne Field: "The publishers are clearly all about
generating profit. No amount of their proofreading and editing
services justifies a $9,500 fee...  If you want to publish an
open-access article with a prestigious journal like Nature, you have
to be one of the most wealthy people in the.. field.. And I don’t know
a single person in my field who doesn’t laugh at Nature’s so-called
open-access strategy...

It is basically the Matthew Effect: the rich people in academia become
richer, the already poor become poorer. At the very least, I would say
that it’s much harder to excel in science when you are from an
underprivileged country"

[[-]](https://www.eurac.edu/en/blogs/connecting-the-dots/sarahanne-field-wants-to-put-the-open-back-into-open-science)

---

*The Out-laws*, dude's in-laws are con. I like the title.

---

Dolph has qualifications on martial arts too, doesn't he? 

---

\#Science \#Dolph

[[-]](https://media.mas.to/masto-public/media_attachments/files/110/687/565/300/528/720/original/135581bf31697588.png)

---

Anil Dash: "There's an extraordinary amount of hype around 'AI' right
now, perhaps even greater than in past cycles, where we've seen an AI
bubble about once per decade. This time, the focus is on generative
systems, particularly LLMs and other tools designed to generate
plausible outputs that either make people feel like the response is
correct, or where the response is sufficient to fill in for domains
where correctness doesn't matter...

Amongst engineers, coders, technical architects, and product
designers, one of the most important traits that a system can have is
that one can reason about that system in a consistent and predictable
way. Even 'garbage in, garbage out' is an articulation of this
principle..

Today's highly-hyped generative AI systems (most famously OpenAI) are
designed to generate bullshit by design. To be clear, bullshit can
sometimes be useful, and even accidentally correct, but that doesn't
keep it from being bullshit. Worse, these systems are not meant to
generate consistent bullshit — you can get different bullshit answers
from the same prompts. You can put garbage in and get... bullshit out,
but the same quality bullshit that you get from non-garbage inputs!
And enthusiasts are current mistaking the fact that the bullshit is
consistently wrapped in the same envelope as meaning that the bullshit
inside is consistent, laundering the unreasonable-ness into appearing
reasonable"

---

"@jcgregorio@mastodon.cc

The more history I learn and the more I watch our current dystopia
play out, the more I believe that fascism is a corporate elite
undertaking, and not a political one, which isn't what our history
books would have us believe"

---

As long as credit is new (printed) money that goes to businesses
directly who are relied upon to hire people so they too can earn money
as salary, the wage/inflation dilemma will never go away. How to raise
rates to kill inflation (by killing growth therefore wages) without
kiling wage growth too much? This is a stupid problem to
have. Businesses should not be at the center of everything. Look at the morons
who run them, why let them have undue influence in your life?

---

True \#Harris \#China \#Taiwan

[[-]](https://youtu.be/plHRRFHZ_f0?t=1058)

---

Stoller: "Hollywood vertically integrated, with streamers both making
and distributing their own content. For a time it looks competitive,
because there are multiple streamers, but it’s a group of giants
fighting with each other, instead of a vibrant set of content creators
selling into an open market.. Fast forward a few years later, and now
writers, directors, executives, and shareholders all realize streaming
is an awful business. Netflix and Disney have massively raised prices
on streaming. Meanwhile, the Marvel movies aren't working anymore, but
there is no way to get new creative content into the market. Hollywood
is vertically integrated and there are high barriers to entry to
selling into a streaming service. The industry is in crisis.

What happened in Hollywood is now happening in video gaming. Sony and
Microsoft have both been locking up video game exclusives for some
time"

[[-]](https://www.thebignewsletter.com/p/will-the-biggest-tech-merger-of-all)

---

"@SeamusPM@mazaska.social

Starbucks was ordered to rehire half a dozen employees they fired
illegally (with compensation for back wages plus interest) , reopen a
store in Ithaca, NY that they closed in retaliation for union
organizing"

---

Pappe: "[An Israeli law] grants automatic citizenship to every Jew in
the world, wherever he or she was born. This law in particular is a
flagrantly undemocratic one, for it was accompanied by a total
rejection of the Palestinian right of return — recognized
internationally by the UN General Assembly Resolution 194 of 1948.
This rejection refuses to allow the Palestinian citizens of
Israel to unite with their immediate families or with those who were
expelled in 1948. Denying people the right of return to their
homeland, and at the same time offering this right to others who have
no connection to the land, is a model of undemocratic practice"

---

Surely this person is freeewheeling gender-fluid accepting
L.G.B.T.I.C.U.P. "ally". Tolerant, worldy, free. But free as in for a
few socially accepted avenues... Their mind, broadly speaking, is
shackled. They have these little shackled shitlib bird brains. 

---

The comment sounds like a shitlib take who smoked a few too many
cracks. 

---

If there are two-states noone is overrun, everyone's in their own state.

TDB: "One of the greatest Palestinian obstacles to peace is their
claimed 'right of return.' Despite no basis in international law, the
demand remains for the return to Israel of millions of Palestinian
descendants of those who left or were expelled in the 1948
Arab-Israeli war. This is, however, a mere cover for overrunning
Israel’s Jewish population, ergo, no more Israel"

---

Mo Gawdat (former mgr at Google X) sounds quite disillusioned with
markets, start-ups, money; he is like 'you work smart, do smart
things, encourage enterpreneurs, then find yourself helping out just
another photo sharing app one day'. Sad.

---

"In the 1950s scientists developed the process for making
high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS). They first refined corn into starch,
then converted the starch into glucose, and finally converted the
glucose into fructose by adding enzymes. The resulting sweetener could
be purified to 90 percent fructose, a product that is much sweeter
than glucose or sucrose (common table sugar). Cane sugar was cheap in
the 1950s, and refining HFCS was an expensive process, so the new
sweetener did not get much attention. But in 1973 the Farm Bill
introduced subsidies for growing certain crops—direct payments to
farmers based on target prices set by the government. Under this
system, the government gave farmers “deficiency payments” to ensure
that target prices were met. In the case of corn, farmers could grow
as much as they wanted, sell it at any price, and still make a profit,
thanks to government subsidies. This encouraged a boom in corn
production, lowering its price on the open market, which made HFCS
financially viable"

---

Perlmutter: "Fructose is.. glucose’s evil twin.. Starting around 1970,
manufacturers began adding high-fructose corn syrup to their products,
and in 1984, both Coca-Cola and Pepsi announced that they were
switching from sucrose to HFCS in their soft drinks"

---

Doctorow: "[T]he 'triangulation' politics beloved of the consultant
class – took over the Democratic Party in the Bill Clinton years.. The
Affordable Care Act was a carefully triangulated compromise, one that
guaranteed a massive flow of public cash to America's wildly
profitable health insurance monopoly and steered clear of any
socialist whiff that Americans would get their care from the
government...  Prior to ACA's passage, 85% of Americans had health
insurance. Today, it's 90%. That's not nothing! 5% of the US is more
than 16m people. But what about the 85% – 282m people – who were
insured before the ACA? Their insurance costs have doubled – from an
average of 15,609 dollars for a family of four in 2009 to 30,260
today"

[[-]](https://pluralistic.net/2023/07/10/thanks-obama/#triangulation)

---

NBC News: "Former U.S. officials have held secret Ukraine talks with
prominent Russians.. with the aim of laying the groundwork for
negotiations to end the war in Ukraine"

---

CNN: "Almost half of the tap water in the US is contaminated with
chemicals known as 'forever chemicals', according to a new study from
the US Geological Survey... PFAS are a family of ubiquitous synthetic
chemicals that linger in the environment and the human body. PFAS
exposure is linked to problems like cancer, obesity, thyroid disease,
high cholesterol, decreased fertility, liver damage and hormone
suppression, according to the US Environmental Protection Agency"

---

The recommendation was to drink water, avoiding "sweet beverages" and
reducing salt, not typically things encouraged by commercial
food/drink producers.

NBC News: "Kidney stones on the rise in children"

---

I'm glad something is being done to fix science; theoretical physics
has gone apeshit, cosmology might as well not exist, and computer
science is overrun by spaz monkeys with ADD who shove data into neural
nets hoping the tech will reach "singularity" one day.

"On 23 May, the Council of the EU [adopted](https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9616-2023-INIT/en/pdf)
a groundbreaking set of conclusions advocating high-quality, open,
trustworthy and equitable scholarly publishing. The move drew
widespread support from Europe’s academic community.. Some native
open-access commercial publishers also welcomed the conclusions. The
traditional academic publishing industry, however, was less
enthusiastic"

---

Global Times: "China's top legislature passed the Foreign Relations
Law on Wednesday, marking a milestone significance as it is the first
fundamental and comprehensive foreign relations law that aims to fix
the loopholes in the rule of law in foreign-related affairs amid new
challenges in foreign relations, especially when China has been facing
frequent external interference in its internal affairs under the
Western hegemony with unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction"

---

Parallelogram area spanned by two vectors $| v_1 \times v_2 |$ divide
by two it's the triangle. Repeat for $v_2,v_3$, and $v_3,v_4$, ..

---

The region is a list of coordinate points, computing area is easy. See
the points as zero centered vectors, consecutive ones form
triangles. Sum them get the total.

---

RU areas in UA, past 7 months. Multiply by 10K for a rough square
km. There is some decrease but not enough to matter.

```python
plt.plot(u.ru_areas())
plt.ylim(15,16)
```

[[-]](ukr-20.jpg)

---

How did open source help Big Tech? Many examples. The book *In the
Plex* has a great one, Google was secretly building its own data
centers around 2004 costing billions, but they could still fund
it. Without FOSS that cost would be prohibitive. They were building in
secret bcz they didn't want Microsoft to find out about how big search
was. Without open source they'd have to build slower, am I right
Google? Then MS would find out sooner or later, catch up and crush
you.

---

\#Cars \#Alaska

[[-]](https://youtu.be/d99vm9gXWv4?t=1179)

---

"@RickBamford@universeodon.com

Don't think people vote against their own interests?  Have you met
them? We do EVERYTHING against our own interests. We eat too much,
move too little, spend too much, save too little, and many other ways,
too. We are slaves to our passions and our passions are spoiled
toddlers"

---

Arab News: "UK special forces chiefs allegedly deleted war crimes data
ahead of probe.. Special forces commanders in the UK allegedly
destroyed computer data to hide potential evidence of the killing of
unarmed Afghan civilians, The Times reported"

---

Einstein and Dirac did not believe in black holes. AE thought a star
collapsing would spin faster and faster, spinning at the speed of
light with infinite energy well before the point where it is about to
collapse into a BH.

---

These neural nets are truly a piece of shit

---

OR AT ALL

TSLA Filing: "[21/04] We are developing self-driving and driver assist
technologies to rely on vision-based sensors.. There is no guarantee
[the tech] will perform as expected in the timeframe we anticipate, or
at all"

---

*Nightcrawler*, great work, same for *The Covenant*. Gyllenhaal finally
made up for *Prince of Persia*.

---

*Goon* was ok.. 

---

*300*, Lena Headey gets a doggy. On *Game of Thrones*, she gets a
doggy.. Directors must really like LH getting a doggy.

---

"@kasesag

Honestly I had more fun with Sailfish OS when I daily drove it with my
Xperia 10 ii. Android feels boring when it's compared with mobile
Linux"

---

Clarke Bolan Sextet - Wives And Lovers \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/HPUbgjmV_wI)

---

He must have smelled opportunities due to the new transportation
options? If a train goes to a place, so can Ali Baba.

"Jack Ma recently visited Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, and Uzbekistan"

---

Asia Times: "[2023/01] China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway back to life"

---

Global Construction Review: "[2023/01] China and India compete to
build rail links with Nepal"

---

Missed me already? Ok ok.. here is a little pre-release. The break continues

---

