# Week 20

"Thanks to the fleet of the first world-class and top-ranked EuroHPC
supercomputers, European scientists and industry are increasingly
processing their data inside the EU. Such a trend is not only
advancing science and boosting the innovation potential of companies
and SMEs in Europe, but is also reinforcing the protection of the
privacy, data protection, commercial trade secrets and ownership of
data in Europe"

[[-]](https://www.hpcwire.com/2023/05/01/eurohpc-executive-director-talks-europes-supercomputing-future/)

---

Ivo Labbe: "‘We just discovered the impossible’: how giant baby
galaxies are shaking up our understanding of the early Universe.. I
run the analysis software.. and it spits out two numbers: distance
13.1 billion light years, mass 100 billion stars, and I nearly spit
out my coffee. We just discovered the impossible. Impossibly early,
impossibly massive galaxies.

At this distance, the light took 13 billion years to reach us, so we
are seeing the galaxies at a time when the universe was only 700
million years old, barely 5% of its current age of 13.8 billion
years. If this is true, this galaxy has formed as many stars as our
present-day Milky Way. In record time.

And where there is one, there are more. One day later I had found six"

---

Newsfile: "First Hydrogen.. confirms its hydrogen-fuel-cell powered
light commercial vehicles (LCV) are performing even better than
predicted. In the first phase of commissioning, the Company's LCVs
accumulated 6,000 km on UK roads, including mileage around London's
M25 motorway. The data logging supports vehicle range simulations,
which exceed a 500 km range. The vehicle is currently performing with
excellent efficiency, including both urban, extra-urban (which
includes driving at higher speeds) and highway operations. First
Hydrogen's LCV fuel consumption figures seen in many driving scenarios
are under 2 kg / 100 km, and in mostly urban driving this is 1.5 kg /
100 km"

---

Blackwater, Wagner are somewhat different, they are private, have
members from all walks of life as with the French Foreign Legion but
in a war Wagner fits in to the hierarchy somewhere. RSF has been that
alternative "second military" for a long time now, actively toppling,
helping form new governments. They are used to having access to power.

---

Former Sudan prez Bashir created the second group RSF as a Praetorian
Guard, who later turned on him. RSF grew in size and capability over
the years now rivaling the real military SAF itself.

---

Easier said than done especially when there are two militaries instead
of one to deal with.

Alneel: "There Can Be No Peace in Sudan Without the Democratic
Empowerment of Its People"

---

This must be the new "the dog ate my homework"

Hindustan Times: "‘Drunk’ US driver switches places with his dog to
avoid arrest"

<img width='200' src='https://www.hindustantimes.com/ht-img/img/2023/05/17/550x309/969913_Wallpaper2_1684333559275.jpg'/> 

---

Some m..fkers are always trying to ice-skate uphill

---

For anyone who wants to read an accurate account of how open-source,
as in **free** software, made inroads into the industry, should check
Chris Anderson's excellent book *Free*. CA details Microsoft's
experience with open source through psychiatrist Elisabeth Kübler's
famous Five Stages of Grief. In the end, Stage 5 - Acceptance: Gates
and Ballmer took their best shot and had their ass handed to
them. Open source could not be quashed, and it has been growing ever
since.

---

Green Car Congress: "PESA, the largest Polish producer of rolling
stock, has developed a shunting locomotive with a hydrogen drive"

---

The Times of India: "Green hydrogen: India is betting big on making a
transition towards renewable energy and reducing dependence on fossil
fuels, and one key factor in this is green hydrogen. According to
the National Green Hydrogen Mission, by 2030 India hopes to
develop green hydrogen production capacity of at least 5 MMT per
annum"

---

Earth.org: "US military pollution is a significant contributor to
climate change. If it were a nation state, it would be the 47th
largest emitter in the world... The Cost of Wars Project found that US
military pollution had accounted for 1.2 billion metric tons of
greenhouse gas emissions, which amount to 257 million passenger cars
annually. They compared this astonishing output as higher than the
emissions from whole countries like Sweden, Morocco, and Switzerland"

---

Earth.org: "In 2017, the US Naval Air Station Oceana in Norfolk, VA
was found to have spilled 84,000 gallons of jet fuel into a
waterway. Similarly, in 2019, statistics arose claiming that the Air
Force contractor had been dumping industrial solvent Trichloroethylene
(TCE) into the ground surrounding the Tucson International Airport for
29 years. It was found that over 1,350 residents suffered from cancer
and other illnesses, due to these negligent actions"

---

Isle of Wight beaches suffer from pollution. Sad.

[[-]](https://www.euronews.com/travel/2023/04/07/swimming-in-sewage-here-are-the-beaches-to-avoid-in-this-uk-holiday-hotspot)

---

First Post: "Taking a dig at those opposing the UN reforms, External
Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said that those who are beneficiaries of
the old system are resistant to that change as they feel it would
'dilute' their positions of privilege"

---

WION: "In show of power over disputed Spratly islands, Philippines
set-up buoys in South China Sea.. The buoys are placed within a
[322-km] zone. It encompasses Whitsun Reef"

---

Past five days around Bakhmut, Ukraine is showing gains North and South,
RU made major headway inside the city in a residential area.

[[-]](ukr-15.jpg)

---

Imma place Libya into the RU-friendly African countries; the Eastern
gov has most of the land, nearly all the oil, and has good rels with
Russia.

[[-]](../../2022/12/ru-africa.html)

---

Reuters: "Australia Big Hydrogen Push Could Catalyse Industry, Experts
Say.. Prime Minister Anthony Albanese's Labor government announced a
A$2 billion (1.4 billion dollars) 'Hydrogen Headstart' programme in
its budget with the aim of accelerating the production and export of
the fuel"

---

Renew Economy: "South Australia swamped with nearly 30 proposals for
world leading green hydrogen plan.. The state Labor government has
committed nearly $600 million to build a 250MW green hydrogen
electrolyser and a 200MW green hydrogen power plant in the steel city
of Whyalla. Both would be the biggest of their type in the world, at
least for a time.

The guarantee of government funds for first of its type projects has
naturally attracted huge interest from Australia and around the
world. The government received around 60 expressions of interest last
year, which have converted into 29 formal proposals under a tender
that closed last week"

---

With the hipster code removed shortest path is working like a
boss. Custom data xform, road network fits into a 200 MB, key/value
db, tiny board RPi runs it. All based on open source data, code.

---

H2 View: "Höegh Autoliners and Norwegian green energy provider North
Ammonia have announced a partnership for the supply, distribution,
delivery, and consumption of green ammonia. The partnership will
enable Höegh Autoliners to meet its commitment to powering at least 5%
of our deep-sea operation with green ammonia by 2030, as part of its
First Movers Coalition pledge, and aim to consumer at least 100,000 MT
of green ammonia within its fleet by that same year"

---

Russia is not the only Haftar supporter. France, Egypt, SA, UAE and,
more recently, US are also supporting. On the other side there is
gobble gobble doing the wobble wobble and (of course) the spastic
child Qatar.

---

Haftar's got almost all the oil (the red dots are oil fields)

```python
u.sm_plot_libya2(["Ghadamis","Tripoli"])
```

<img width='340' src='libya2.jpg'/> 

---

Some in the West are playing both sides? Good catch by \#TFIGlobal

FT: "More than $1bn of EU exports targeted by sanctions have
disappeared in transit to Russia’s economic partners, a flow of 'ghost
trade' that western officials believe has helped sustain Vladimir
Putin’s wartime economy.

Public data analysed by the Financial Times found that only about half
of a $2bn sample of controlled 'dual use' items shipped from the EU
actually reached their stated destinations in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan
and Armenia.

These goods, which are deemed by the EU to have potential uses for
military or intelligence services and are subject to export controls,
may have entered Russia directly from the EU under the pretence that
they were only passing through"

[[-]](https://www.ft.com/content/76fc91b2-3494-4022-83d0-9d6647b38e3d)

---

TDB: "Special Counsel John Durham’s report on the FBI’s investigation
into Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign criticized the agency
for acting on 'raw, unanalyzed, and uncorroborated
intelligence.'.. CNN anchor Jake Tapper claimed Monday that the report
by Durham is 'devastating' to the organization and even exonerates
Trump 'to a degree.'"

---

Politico: "Durham report faults FBI’s Trump-Russia probe"

---

"With its benign location and natural resources, Mexico has high hopes
for hydrogen. It could attract investments of around $60bn and
generate around 3 million jobs – but for that to happen, a number of
key obstacles need to be overcome [around cert, reg]... 'we are at the
perfect time to move towards this transformation; since it is
estimated that by 2030 in Mexico the production of green hydrogen
could have lower costs by up to 64% compared to other countries that
do not have the same energy potential, we also have a privileged
location, which allows us to obtain solar and wind energy, from which
green hydrogen is generated,' added [an expert]"

---

WION: "In India's biggest drug bust, crystal meth worth $1.45bn seized
from Kerala coast, Pakistani held"

---

If Ukraine followed the Minsk aggrement, the areas under RU influence
then were smaller than the areas controlled by Russia now. So overall,
this avoidable war has been a net loss for UA. Was the effort worth
it, other than serving Western interests "to contain Russia"?

---

The find is in the Haftar controlled region (Gen Haftar is supported
by Russia).

```python
u.sm_plot_libya1(["Ghadamis","Tripoli","Sirte"])
```

[[-]](libya1.jpg)

---

Al Monitor: "Russia's Tatneft makes new oil discovery in
Libya.. Libya's state-owned National Oil Corporation and Tatneft said
they discovered the oil in the Ghadames basin 330 [km] south of the
capital Tripoli at a depth of 8,500 feet. The amount of oil that can
be extracted amounts to 1,870 barrels per day"

---

Janes: "Australia places greater value on long-range missiles than B-21s"

---

TechXplore: "Navid Attarzadeh first noticed the prickly pear cactus
while walking to UTEP's Center for Advanced Materials Research
lab. The team had been exploring nickel as a catalytic replacement for
platinum, a metal that is abundant on Earth.. Nickel, however, is not
as quick and effective at breaking down water into hydrogen.

'Every day, I passed this same plant,' said Attarzadeh, a doctoral
student in environmental science and engineering. 'And I started
connecting it to our catalyst problem. What caught my attention was
how big the leaves and fruits were compared to other desert plants;
the prickly pear has an extraordinary surface area.'

That's when the Attarzadeh had an idea. What if they designed a 3D
nickel-based catalyst in the shape of the prickly pear cactus? The
larger surface area could accommodate more electrochemical
reactions—creating more hydrogen than nickel typically can. The team
quickly designed the nano-scale structure—invisible to the human
eye—and put it to the test. 'We tested the catalyst's ability to split
water repeatedly and had good results'"

---

Second round it is \#TR

---

Global Sea Level rise

[[-]](https://sealevel.colorado.edu/)

---

Pandaily: "China’s First Hydrogen-powered Urban Train Can Reach A Top
Speed of 160 km/h"

<img width='340' src='https://assets.pandaily.com/uploads/2023/05/%E6%9C%AA%E5%91%BD%E5%90%8D%E7%9A%84%E8%AE%BE%E8%AE%A1-5-1.jpg'/> 

---

The Guardian: "David Miranda, campaigner and former Brazilian
congressman, dies aged 37.. Lula celebrates ‘extraordinary trajectory’
of favela-born politician and Guardian columnist who played key role
in Snowden leaks"

----

Renew Economy: "Fortescue Future Industries has offered a first
glimpse of Australia's first electrolyser manufacturing facility,
posting a picture of the shiny new facility on LinkedIn this week...
Once fully operational, the $114 million project will produce 2GW of
electrolysers per year, which are in high demand as a critical
technology needed to produce 100% renewable \#GreenHydrogen."

---

R. Reich could be right; celebs doesn't want a blue check but e-jagoff
gave them one anyway paying out of pocket indicating celeb paid and
endorsed the gonzo system when they didn't, isn't that fraud under the
FTC Act? Past deeds as CEO might warrant investigation.

---

It gets even better; pesticide DDT is banned in US but you might buy
an apple shipped from another country produced via the DDT which US
sold them. Ain't that grand? Bidness makes money one way or
another. People also get poisoned, one way or another.

---

Paper: "US allows the production and export of pesticides to low- and
middle-income countries.. even when those pesticides have been banned
domestically due to their known detrimental health impacts"

[[-]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667193X22000722)

---
