# Week 42

FuelcellsWorks: "Ballymena's Wrightbus lands significant order for
hydrogen-powered buses from Germany"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/076/478/429/original/bf1ac7b111d1f769.jpg'/> 

---

FuelcellsWorks: "Germany Initiates The First Conversion Of A Natural
Gas Pipeline To Hydrogen"

---

FuelcellsWorks: "Brazil Eyes Northeastern Ports for Green Hydrogen
Exports, Attracts Massive Investments"

---

FuelcellsWorks: "Australian First: The Hon. Lily D’Ambrosio MP Unveils
Boundary Power’s Hydrogen Integrated Stand-Alone Power System
(HiSAPS).. A first-of-its-kind in Australia, Boundary Power has
developed a relocatable, hydrogen integrated stand-alone power system
(HiSAPS) funded by the Department of Energy, Environment and Climate
Action (DEECA) Victoria"

---

FuelcellsWorks: "Oman is Investing $30 Billion in Hydrogen Economy"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Multimillion Pound Investment to Develop Hydrogen
Supercluster in South West England and South Wales.. Academic, civic
and industry partners will work together to unlock the huge potential
of our region’s hydrogen ecosystem providing solutions for storage and
distribution, transport, and the energy sector"

---

JPT: "Inpex, Japan’s largest oil and gas exploration and production
company, and Green Hydrogen International (GHI) have signed a joint
study agreement to advance GHI’s flagship Hydrogen City production hub
in South Texas with the aim of producing green hydrogen and green
ammonia to meet growing Asian and global market demand"

---

TechXplore: "New system to harness 40% of the sun's heat to produce
clean hydrogen fuel..  In a study published today in *Solar Energy*,
[MIT] engineers lay out the conceptual design for a system that can
efficiently produce "solar thermochemical hydrogen." The system
harnesses the sun's heat to directly split water and generate
hydrogen..

At the heart of a conceptual STCH system is a two-step thermochemical
reaction. In the first step, water in the form of steam is exposed to
a metal. This causes the metal to grab oxygen from steam, leaving
hydrogen behind. This metal "oxidation" is similar to the rusting of
iron in the presence of water, but it occurs much faster. Once
hydrogen is separated, the oxidized (or rusted) metal is reheated in a
vacuum, which acts to reverse the rusting process and regenerate the
metal. With the oxygen removed, the metal can be cooled and exposed to
steam again to produce more hydrogen. This process can be repeated
hundreds of times.

The MIT system is designed to optimize this process. The system as a
whole resembles a train of box-shaped reactors running on a circular
track. In practice, this track would be set around a solar thermal
source, such as a CSP tower. Each reactor in the train would house the
metal that undergoes the redox, or reversible rusting, process.

<img width='340' src='https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1wJiyig7pRLIOXshh4reO28UKBRey_efc'/> 

Each reactor would first pass through a hot station, where it would be
exposed to the sun's heat at temperatures of up to 1,500°C. This
extreme heat would effectively pull oxygen out of a reactor's
metal. That metal would then be in a "reduced" state—ready to grab
oxygen from steam. For this to happen, the reactor would move to a
cooler station at temperatures around 1,000°C, where it would be
exposed to steam to produce hydrogen"

---

NYT: "[Khalidi] Israel has ordered more than a million people to leave
northern Gaza, presumably to prepare for an imminent ground
offensive. Its military strategists appear to be planning the
depopulation and reoccupation of at least part of an area home to
around 2.3 million people — nearly half of them children — and most of
them descended from people driven from their homes before and during
the 1948 Arab-Israeli war. We must understand that these are human
beings at grave risk, not just numbers. Consider what some in the
Israeli defense establishment have said. 'The State of Israel has no
choice but to turn Gaza into a place that is temporarily or
permanently impossible to live in,' a reservist major general, Giora
Eiland, wrote in Yedioth Ahronoth, an Israeli newspaper. 'Creating a
severe humanitarian crisis in Gaza is a necessary means to achieve the
goal.'  He added, 'Gaza will become a place where no human being can
exist.'  Defense Minister Yoav Gallant said, 'We are fighting human
animals, and we are acting accordingly.' Maj. Gen. Ghassan Alian
declared that in Gaza, 'there will be no electricity and no
water. There will only be destruction. You wanted hell; you will get
hell. 'The depopulation of Gaza would be manifestly inhumane and a
violation of international law. President Biden and his advisers
should ask themselves how it can be in the national interest of the
United States to allow another mass expulsion of Palestinians from
their homes. Such a cataclysm would be a second nakba, or catastrophe,
as the displacement of 1948 is called"

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Nv-JYxRPo7c?start=264&end=362" title="“Violence Is Bred by Occupation:” Historian Rashid Khalidi on Israel-Gaza | Amanpour and Company" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"What Israel faces in a ground invasion in Gaza" \#AlJazeera

[[-]](https://youtu.be/v9kQgSGQkJ4?t=95)

---

\#Chomsky \#Biblical \#ISR

[[-]](https://youtu.be/MFLiDP6TnoQ?t=20)

---

"@maxkennerly@mstdn.social

An open secret of big pharma is that the bulk of their 'innovation' is
trivial—they're mostly generating analogues to evade patents—and the
real breakthroughs are always mostly/entirely government initiated and
funded, then handed to private companies for rent-seeking"

---

Prospect: "As the Senate holds confirmation hearings today for a new
director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the agency
quietly filed a proposal last month to grant an exclusive patent for a
cancer drug, potentially worth hundreds of millions or even billions
of dollars, to an obscure company staffed by one of its former
employees"

---

Green hydrogen: Brazil opens first research center on the topic in Minas Gerais

<img width='340' src='https://classic.exame.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/WhatsApp-Image-2023-09-28-at-9.03.10-AM.jpeg?quality=70&strip=info&w=1024'/> 

---

Business Green: "'Rock cavern' storage promises to almost halve the
cost of hydrogen for fossil-free steel production.. Fossil-free steel
pilot from SSAB, LKAB, and Vattenfall finds that 'lined rock cavern'
hydrogen storage cuts gas production costs by up to 40 per cent"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Netherlands: €40 million European backing for Dutch
hydrogen innovator Battolyser Systems"

---

BEVs were a stupid idea whose time will never come

---

Yahoo Finance: "EVs Are Piling Up on Dealer Lots as Supply Outpaces Demand"

---

"@chu@climatejustice.social

Exactly why billionaires hate remote work. Here's another way to spin
the headline:

'Remote work to reduce fossil fuel revenue by more than half'"

---

"@Andy_European@mastodon.online

While there is not much we the people can do to immediately help
Palestinian civilians being bombed to smithereens bar demanding our MP
representatives stop funding Israel’s war machine while we donate to
charities — https://www.unrwa.org — in the vain hope Israel lifts it
total blockade of Gaza we can withdraw our support for the wider
Israeli economy by boycotting Israeli products, especially those from
the occupied territories"

Find out how here: [https://bdsmovement.net](https://bdsmovement.net)

---

Gaza came into being as a refugee camp. Now people are fleeing there,
its habitants can become refugees, ie refugees from a refugee camp.
The pain of these people never ends.

---

Who first called Gaza an open-air prison? I believe it was David
Cameron actually, back in 2010.

---

CNBC: "Egypt does not see why country should ‘bear solely’ the
responsibility for Gaza’s refugee influx"

---

<iframe width="300" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GI0810gD6Eg?start=64&end=125" title="Fareed shares what the &#39;severest setback&#39; would be for Hamas now" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Arab News: "The Israeli embassy in Brazil protested Tuesday against a
resolution by the party of leftist President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva
that accuses Israel of 'genocide' and 'war crimes.'"

---

Arab News: "Indonesia, Malaysia join global condemnation of Israeli
strike on Gaza hospital"

---

Al-Monitor: "Angry protests across Muslim world after Gaza hospital strike"

---

via @jeffowski@mastodon.world

<img width='250' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/111/242/054/647/137/794/original/272614b44370e9d5.png'/> 

---

I don't think they saw any chance of that... Best they hoped for was
RF KKK would stir things up inside the Dem party damaging Biden a
little bit during the nomination process, making the Rep side's job
easier in the general, that's all.

"But what if Fox News promo had helped RFK to win the Dem nomination
and he went on to beat the Rep candidate in the general"?

---

And lost the leftist guy.. probably for a reason

NYT: "Dennis Kucinich Leaves Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s Presidential Campaign"

---

As long as RK was causing problems inside the Dems he was fine with
Fox. But now he might peel away some votes from Reps, he is not
fine. McShamrock Finnigan turned on him.

WaPo: "Once upon a time, it seemed that Sean Hannity was excited about
no presidential candidate more than Robert F. Kennedy Jr... Then
Kennedy announced that he would run not as a Democrat against Biden
but as an independent — against both Biden and whoever wins the
Republican nomination for president. That almost certainly means
running against Hannity’s friend Donald Trump. It also may mean
pulling more support from Trump than from Biden, which is very much
not what Hannity or other Republicans would like to see... So, when
Kennedy again joined Hannity on Tuesday night, he earned a much
briefer and colder reception"

---

"@tante@tldr.nettime.org

Mitchell Baker from Mozilla tells the German news agency that we
shouldn't 'leave AI development to the tech-giants', that somehow 'the
training data should be controlled by users'.

And that does on a surface level sound nice. User control and
criticizing tech giants. Great. But it accepts the tech-giants'
narrative: That 'AI' is inevitable and that all data *has to* be
dumped into these systems, that unfairness is a tech issue to solve
with more data. That is not true.

We can also decide not to build these huge and wasteful statistical
systems.

Sure there are useful machine learning tools, I spend parts of my day
building some, but these overreaching, all-encompassing, general
models are a mistake. They promise things that they'll never deliver,
are untestable, unverifiable, massively wasteful, express systemic
violence (and all the other structural issues [Timnit Gebru, Margaret
Mitchell, Emily Bender] and Angelina McMillan-Major have written
about).

If there is something in machine learning, it is in small, focused,
testable networks"

---

Vox: "Why Biden’s multibillion-dollar bet on hydrogen energy is such a
big deal.. The federal funding is just a start. The Biden
administration hopes these projects attract another $40 billion in
private investment. And generous government subsidies earmarked in the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act are
aimed at providing the private sector with the incentive to boost not
only the production of hydrogen but also the demand for it..

So the Biden administration has an unusual opportunity to set the
contours of how clean the hydrogen really becomes. The newly announced
hydrogen hubs are just the first step in a multiyear,
multibillion-dollar road. The government is essentially propping up a
nascent industry, but with that massive support comes an opportunity
to set the terms of an industry right..

Biden’s recent $7 billion announcement, it deserves to be said, is a
major one. It reveals the broad blueprint the Department of Energy
intends to follow to build an entire energy industry almost from
scratch. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law gave the department 8
billion to develop both supply and demand for hydrogen — the other 1
billion dollars will be used for supporting demand — and now we know
some details about how it will spend the vast majority of that on the
projects the DOE has prioritized"

---

MLH has some history on this issue, remember the "CNN event" back in 2018

[[-]](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2018/nov/29/cnn-marc-lamont-hill-israel)

---

\#BreakfastClub \#LamontHill

[[-]](https://youtu.be/hPRua0u7hYY?t=104)

---

\#AlJazeera \#UpFront

[[-]](https://youtu.be/UgoUq69NZ30?t=1319)
 
---

Right before Biden arrives in ME, IDF bombing kills (at least) 300?
Could be a message; ISR indicated to US they don't want to temper
their hard-line position.

---

Reuters: "At least 300 dead in Gaza hospital bombing"

---

They just told him the get f--k out.. That's great. 

The Times of Israel: "Colombia tells Israel envoy to leave.. for
rebuking President Gustavo Petro. [President] Petro..  [had] accused
Defense Minister Yoav Gallant of using language about the people of
Gaza similar to what the 'Nazis said of the Jews.'"

---

Andersen: "I’ve now learned that my natural civilian suspicion of the
[stock buyback] practice had been encoded in federal securities law
since the New Deal: buying back shares of your own stock was
tantamount to illegal market manipulation, insider trading in the
spirit if not the letter of the law, and it had been essentially
outlawed. But then in 1982, without any real debate and without almost
anybody outside finance noticing, the SEC did away with that ban"

---

Janel Comeau: "hey sorry I missed your text, I am processing a non-stop 24/7
onslaught of information with a brain designed to eat berries in a cave"

---

EW: "Tek Knight rises: Meet [spinoff] *Gen V*'s fascist Batman with a
twist.. Showrunner Michele Fazekas and The Boys-verse architect Eric
Kripke explain how they made the comic character.. 'He's a combo of
both [IM and Bats].'".

---

Sad. *The Boys* is basically a parody of the superhero genre, and they
are beating the superhero genre. They recently featured Tek Knight in
the spinoff show - guess who he is a parody of (likely both of Iron
Man and Batman). The parody would not be complete without addressing
the fascist billionaire corporatist overdressed clown who thinks he is
above government.

CBR: "*The Boys* Was More Popular Than Any of Disney+'s Marvel Series in 2022"

---

Data collection, verification of theories is great, NASA and other
agencies help science in a big way through data collection.  Data from
Webb telescope debunked the Big Bang in a way it had many scientist
shook.

---

That's makes sense; see [excerpts](../../0119/2016/03/arrival-of-the-fittest.html)
from a book shared before. 

Salon: "NASA found materials on an asteroid like those that may have
'triggered the origin of life' on Earth"

---

The Rep nominee, most likely DJT, will have a chance but Biden, even
with -15% net approval rating at 2% QoQ GDP growth has the
advantage. Elections are about the incumbents. The first-term
incumbent (party) for prez almost never loses. HW lost but that was
GOP's third term, the party affiliation (and fatigue) transfered onto
him. For Dems 2024 this is not the case. Only at lower GDP, eg 0%
growth, the challenger would have the upper hand. If the backdrop
stays the same the race will be a tough one on the Reps, even for
Trump.

[[-]](../../0119/2015/04/predicting-presidential-elections.html#2024)

---

JSON is easy. But we might have created a whole generation who doesn't
even know what a file is. Big Tech apps are hiding away major comp
concepts in their shiny little apps.

---

I could offer a travel planner, but u have to write some effin JSON
dear user, and host the main file and the waypoint files somewhere. 

---

How to know starting to truly use a language? For me when I start
writing regex with it. Just wrote one in that little nifty language
running in all browsers.

---

"@ScienceDesk@flipboard.social

Everything you need to know about the Biden administration's massive,
$7 billion clean hydrogen program.

Heatmap News reports: 'By the end of the decade, the program seeks to
replace fossil fuels across a variety of industries that can’t easily
run on renewable energy.'

They've curated a collection of stories on the topic"

[https://flip.it/UEmBFZ](https://flip.it/UEmBFZ)

<img width='340' src='https://m-cdn.flipboard.social/cache/preview_cards/images/004/091/324/original/080ab27d8b056f6c.jpeg'/> 

---

GPL is a form of software license, if software developers "open" their
code under that license anyone modifying that code has to open their
modifications as well. The license creates a "cascading openness"
effect which was Richard Stallman's intention from the start. GPL is a
brilliant, major piece of legalese-fu that deserves praise from users
and programmers alike.

Now, if artificial parrot algos, so called "AI", generates its (shit)
code based on GPL trained neural net than that output is likely GPL
too.. So if a company tries to close-source that generated code, make
it commercial, it is possible u could sue their ass.

---

"@frumble@chaos.social

@tante Yes, and lawsuits are on the way"

---

"tante@tldr.nettime.org

A thing I keep wondering about as a non-lawyer.

So we know that #GitHub #Copilot was absolutely trained on GPLed code.

My naive understanding is that therefore any code Copilot generates
could be (at least partially) derivative and would need to be
GPLed. Where am I wrong?"

---

I agree with the audience score

```python
u.rottentomatoes2("The Continental")
```

```text
Out[1]: {'tomatometer score': 63, 'audience score': 80}
```

---

Hindustan Times: "China says Israel acting 'beyond scope of
self-defence': Cease punishing Gaza"

---

Al-Monitor: "China says supports 'just cause' of Palestinian people"

---

NYT: "Israel-Hamas War: Gaza Border Remains Closed for Aid; Water and
Fuel Shortages Worsen"

---

Firstpost: "Donald Trump wants to testify in London court over 'Steele
dossier'"

---

"@cleanenergy_EU@respublicae.eu

6️9️ projects are funded by the #InnovationFund reducing #GHGemissions
in many sectors 👇

💧 #Hydrogen

🚧 Construction

☀️ Solar energy

🌬️ Wind energy

⚉ &amp; more

Discover the data 👉 https://europa.eu/!8gQ67m

New calls coming this autumn 👀 #staytuned"

---

CleanTechnica: "Fuel Cell Trucks Win Big In New $7 Billion US Hydrogen Plan"

<img width='340' src='https://cleantechnica.com/files/2023/10/fuel-cell-trucks-green-hydrogen-quantron-2048x1143.jpg'/> 

---

"@wilbr@glitch.social

Racing gas-powered cars on Easter Island is ironic given that the
Islanders allegedly died due to famine due to overallocation of scarce
resources to conflict and superstition"

---

Mother Jones: "EPA opens civil rights probe of Alabama's sewage
failures.. Impoverished Black residents are saddled with.. unsanitary
systems"

---

Reuters: "Biden awards $7 billion for 7 hydrogen hubs in climate fight
plan.. U.S. President Joe Biden traveled to Philadelphia on Friday to
announce the recipients of 7 billion in federal grants across 16
states for the development of seven regional hydrogen hubs"

---

WH: "Biden-⁠Harris Administration Announces Regional Clean Hydrogen
Hubs to Drive Clean Manufacturing.. Today, President Biden and Energy
Secretary Jennifer Granholm are announcing seven regional clean
hydrogen hubs that were selected to receive $7 billion [in funding]"

---

Summary of the i24 report (link below): Qatar bought a power plant and
was buying fuel from Egypt for it for Hamas who collected the resale
money for public servant pay. Oil price rose, resale did not make much
money so Hamas held up another Qatar aid package for more money even
organized some riots to make a point..

Looks like things were getting tense from all directions.. Ultra-religious
zealot admin for Israel, rising oil price, Gulf raproachement with unpredictable
results for Palestine, and the ever-present prison-like conditions in Gaza
and creeping settler expansionism, plus apartheid. Why did the attacks happen
now? The better question is why isn't there an outburst / attack every
day of the week?

[[-]](https://www.i24news.tv/en/news/middle-east/palestinian-territories/1695105006-gaza-border-riots-intended-to-pressure-qatar-for-more-aid-money-report)

---

Arafat was poisoned BTW

---

What a progression of jackasses, one after another... I remember this
era, "get rid of Arafat and all will be fine" phase. 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/KBT7o0piZ8E?t=272)

---

"@onthisday@mastodon.social

Today [Oct 15] in 1994, 29 years ago: Yasser Arafat, Yitzhak Rabin and
Shimon Peres receive the Nobel Peace Prize for their role in the
establishment of the Oslo Accords and the framing of future
Palestinian self government"

---

"@bennomatic@appdot.net

.. I once had a consulting gig with the TSA which required an in-depth
background check that included an hours-long interview.. The final q
was, 'Are you now, or have you ever been a member of an organization
which advocates the use of violence to overthrow governments.'

We had just hung Saddam Hussein three days before. It took all of my
self control not to say, 'Well, I told you I'm an American citizen,
didn't I?', instead of, 'No, sir.'"

---

The data in the tracking system is somehat behind, Ford is reportedly
already in the eastern Medi, along with others.

```python
u.sm_usnavy(clat=31, clon=34, zoom=3.0)
```

<img width='340' src='usnavy5.jpg'/>

---

"@cstross@wandering.shop

@tess The British Empire carved up its territories using the 70/25/5
rule: a 70% majority, taxed and worked for profit, plus a 25% minority
from another ethnic group, armed with whips/clubs/rifles and enlisted
as a middle class and tax collectors, ruled over by a 5% elite of
British colonial administrators and soldiers with Gatling guns and
artillery (in case of a 25% uprising). The empire then left behind new
nations with built-in ethnic strife: a poor 2/3 majority vs. a
less-poor 1/3 minority"

---

"@tess@mastodon.social

If you want to know the root cause of any inter-ethnic strife or
genocide in the modern world, 'the British' is usually a pretty safe
bet"

---

Firstpost: "Gaza death toll rises to 2,450; over 1,400 killed in Hamas
attacks on Israel"

---

Al-Monitor: "Israel, Gaza bloodshed divides the world, isolates
West.. The global response to the bloodshed in Israel and Gaza has
revealed deep divisions, with Western countries increasingly isolated
on the global stage, a trend that has gathered pace since the outbreak
of the Ukraine war"

---

Can characters like that in gov trigger your opponent? Absolutely. The
fucker is a con. Your opponent will think 'they are coming for me' and
can make a move themselves. 

---

Gvir, from Otzma Yehudit, is the sitting Minister of National Security
of Israel

New Yorker: "[2023/02] Ben-Gvir.. has been convicted on at least eight
charges, including supporting a terrorist organization and incitement
to racism, compiling a criminal record so long that, when he appeared
before a judge, 'we had to change the ink on the printer,' Dvir Kariv,
a former official in the Shin Bet intelligence agency, told me. As
recently as last October, Netanyahu refused to share a stage with him,
or even to be seen with him in photographs. But a series of
disappointing elections persuaded Netanyahu to change his mind"

---

Some of the party names in the current coalition:

Shas - literally meaning 'Sephardi Guards' or Union of Sephardic Torah
Observers

Religious Zionism

United Torah Judaism

Otzma Yehudit (means Jewish Power)

---

"Religious extremist Hamas"..  It is actually the current Israeli gov
that is stuffed with religious zealots.

---
