# Week 30

"Second French Plan for Open Science.. Open science refers to the
unhindered dissemination of results, methods and products from
scientific research. It draws on the opportunity provided by recent
digital progress to develop open access to publications and – as much
as possible – data, source code and research methods... The French
Plan for Open Science has provided France with a coherent and dynamic
policy in the field of open science. It was announced in 2018 by the
Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Frédérique
Vidal, and is coordinated by the Committee for Open Science, which
brings together the Ministry, the universities and research performing
organizations and the scientific community. Substantial progress has
been made in the three years since this policy was introduced. The
percentage of open access scientific publications in France has risen
from 41% to 56%"

---

"Rowan Atkinson has made a surprising cameo behind the wheel of a
hydrogen-powered Toyota GR Yaris hot hatch, while using one of the
automotive industry’s largest annual events to show his support for
the zero tailpipe emissions technology"

---

Paper: "Replacing traditional journals with a more modern solution is
not a new idea. Here, we propose ways to overcome the social dilemma
underlying the decades of inaction. Any solution needs to not only
resolve the current problems but also be capable of preventing
takeover by corporations: it needs to replace traditional journals
with a decentralized, resilient, evolvable network that is
interconnected by open standards and open-source norms under the
governance of the scholarly community."

[[-]](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsos.230206)

---

Reuters: "Tesla created secret team to suppress thousands of driving
range complaints.. Tesla rigged the dashboard readouts in its electric
cars to provide 'rosy' projections of how far owners can drive before
needing to recharge"

[[-]](https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/tesla-batteries-range/)

---

250 bucks.. let's be nice now.. dont wanna bankrupt these "value creators"
they give so much to society

Gizmodo: "Earlier in the week, NBCUniversal drew controversy when it
suddenly up and pruned a bunch of shade trees in front of its lot. Up
until then, those trees were being used by striking writers and actors
as shade during their picketing, because it’s been really hot in Los
Angeles lately. To see them cut down felt like a very deliberate move
against picketers, even as Universal insisted it was nothing more than
a not-so-happy coincidence... LA’s City Controller Kenneth
Mejia.. said that StreetsLA would issue a fine of $250 to the
corporation for the violation of cutting trees without a city permit"

---

But even when they agreed on 'freedoms', anti-gov views, neither side
liked what those freedoms would entail, unleash on the other side. The
economic right could not stand the socially permissive ways of the
cultural left, who in turn could not stand some freedoms the right
practiced such as guns, and the lax atitude towards the
environment. But that was okay - that dislike could subtitute for
politics now - everyone could argue until they were blue in the face
that never amounted to much change since the 'superstructure'
underneath that allowed it was set in stone. But argument, upon
argument, hack against hack were piled on.. It made a festive
party. In the process due to natural cycles there would be ups and
downs, some ppl would drop out of office, some get in, some would get
awarded, some get rich, even minorities would get to 'represent'..  it
could look like forward momentum, advance, for a while it looked like
things were getting better (but they were not)

---

What do you get as the result of economic right's [grand
bargain](2023/06/evil-geniuses.html#bargain) with cultural left? The
Woke ideology. The masses were permitted to increase their
"self-expressive urges" (some took it to its natural conclusion and
became Woke) capitalists in return were also unshackled in their own
ways and formed today's business class, some bought guns. They are
different sides of the same coin.

---

My African map showed Niger in US column; will that change in the future?

[[-]](2022/12/ru-africa.html)

---

The Guardian: "Niger’s military leadership has thrown its weight
behind a coup against the president, Mohamed Bazoum"

---

Politico: "There was understandable glee in Kyiv when news broke that
the Kremlin was turning on the self-styled Club of Angry Patriots —
the ultranationalists.. But given the bigger picture, the excitement
may prove premature... despite these sackings and arrests, Russia’s
defenses are holding as Ukraine’s counteroffensive continues to make
disappointing progress. After nearly two months of fighting, Ukraine’s
made no significant breakthrough in the south, where Kyiv had hoped to
see more progress in its bid to sever the so-called land bridge
connecting the annexed Crimean isthmus and southern Ukrainian
territories occupied by Russian forces. Moreover, Russia has launched
its own counteroffensive further north around Kupyansk and Kreminna"

---

NBC News: "Like a hot tub: Water temperatures off Florida soar over
100 degrees (>37 C), stunning experts"

---

NPR: "UPS union calls off strike threat after securing pay raises for
workers.. UPS posted a record profit last year, as the company reached
100 billion in revenue in 2022 for the first time... Last year, the
median UPS employee made 52,000 dollars, according to the company's
securities filings. Tomé earned 364 times that amount, with her salary
approaching $19 million"

---

Abigail Disney: "I used to ride private planes. Now I’d rather get
arrested protesting them.. According to Oxfam, billionaires emit a
million times more greenhouse gases than the average person"

---

Lithium-ion batteries are self-oxidizing, they can keep their own fire
alive.. and a genius big brain put this shit on cars.

Reuters: "One dead in cargo ship fire, electric car suspected
source.. The crew had tried, but failed, to extinguish the fire"

---

US News: "A Freighter Carrying Nearly 3,000 Cars Catches Fire in the
North Sea and a Crew Member Is Killed"

---

"@davidaugust@mastodon.online

There are 160,000 members of SAG-AFTRA, with at least 87% unable to
meet the minimum for healthcare eligibility. Actors are usually
working-class, without achieving million-dollar earnings or attending
red carpet awards ceremonies"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

Governor Pritzker signs legislation to strengthen Illinois' Hydrogen
economy.. Legislation creates a tax credit of $10 million per year for
users of clean hydrogen in Illinois"

---

*Jack the Giant Slayer* this is how you do fantasy.. Five stars

---

H2 Central: "Port of Rotterdam, Vopak in Race for $2,8 Billion
Hydrogen Port in South Africa"

---

H2 Central: Germany Commits to ‘Blue Hydrogen’ in Updated National
Strategy

---

NYT: "Who’s Behind the Judicial Overhaul Now Dividing
Israel?.. Kohelet, the once-obscure think tank that conceived and now
champions a revamped court system, is an American import... For years,
Kohelet quietly churned out position papers, trying to nudge
government policy in a more libertarian direction... American
consultants are a regular feature of election campaigns, and the
American-backed Israel Hayom, a free daily, is the country’s most
widely read newspaper"

---

Automotive News: "Recurrent, a Seattle EV battery and range analytics
firm, found that some EVs experienced significant declines in range as
temperatures rose"

---

Jalopnik: "We already knew electric vehicles don’t do so well when it
gets really cold outside. Well, apparently they don’t really like
extreme heat either. According to Automotive News, the recent heat
wave across much of the Southern and Western U.S. has brought their
range issue to the forefront"

[[-]](https://jalopnik.com/its-too-hot-for-evs-to-work-right-1850663950)

---

That would be a major win.. That guy nearly won the world cup for
France singlehandedly despite all that FIFA bullshit and f-ing
Qatar... yeah.. u know what u did mfkers

Al Monitor: "Saudi Arabia's Al-Hilal makes record $332 million bid for
soccer star Mbappe"

---

I Ain't Superstitious - Santana & Jonny Lang \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/f831LG6pr9E)

---

July-September is the typhoon season isn't it? 

Arab News: "Taiwan cancels military drills as typhoon approaches"

---

Pattinson from *Tenet* also played another version of the jagoff
billionaire, true. BTW *Cosmopolis* is not the deep critical movie
some think it to be. Watch it until the end.

---

After making three movies about a jagoff billionaire, on *Tenet* his
ultimate goal seemed to be to bore with maniacal detail (built on
baseless science) but he truly gets you with the backdrop where it is
indirectly suggested "some people in gov can be doing some scary shit
and you should be scared of that shit". *Oppenheimer* is similar -
this is the story of the atomic bomb after all. But a-bomb cannot ever
be used due to M.A.D. whereas the private sector freely kills people
pollutes the environment churning out shit product (much like Nolan's
movies) constantly, annually. What I am wondering is when is this guy
going to make a movie about toxic spills, theft, fraud that takes
place in US business *right now*? 

---

Nolan excels at it - that lingering, vacuous psyop. Perhaps his is
most effective because of the uniqueness of style even if boring.

"@esther@strangeobject.space

Oppenheimer does very little but it does it a lot , over a long time,
and very loudly. It ends up being boring and empty"

---

Ian Moss - 'Nullarbor Plain' \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/cWBS8j_EgHw)

---

Another case of [psychic's con](https://softwarecrisis.dev/letters/llmentalist),
people see what they want to see in statistical generalities.

---

No James Vlahos definitely did not "turn his father into AI" and can
posthumously talk to the man 😂 

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

France backs ArcelorMittal’s Dunkirk hydrogen steel plant plans with €850m"

---

France 24: "The world's first hydrogen-powered passenger train,
Coradia iLint, is currently being tested in Quebec's Charlevoix
region. Designed in France by rolling stock manufacturer Alstom, the
zero-emissions train runs on electricity produced by mixing hydrogen
with oxygen, meaning that moisture its only waste product. Alstom said
Europe has already placed an order for 41 hydrogen trains"

---

"@notjustbikes@notjustbikes.com

Every time I try to book an international train in Europe it's full or
near capacity. They sell out within days of becoming available.

Demand is way up, but supply has been the same for year. We need more
trains!!"

---

"@ErikJonker@mastodon.social

The Dutch government now has an official Mastodon instance, this gives
government organisations and institutions the chance to have an
official account in the fediverse.. I hope more governments will
follow because the fediverse gives them the possibility to fully
control the data, no advertising etc"

---

This means massive amount of money lost for the California public
school system.

The Mercury News: "Built-in software ‘death dates’ are sending
thousands of schools’ Chromebooks to the recycling bin.. With a
software death date baked into each model, older versions of these
inexpensive computers are set to expire three to six years after their
release. Despite having fully functioning hardware, an expired
Chromebook will no longer receive the software updates it needs,
blocking basic websites and applications from use...

Chromebook sales soared after the start of the pandemic in 2020. More
affordable than traditional laptops, the devices were seen as a way to
connect students to their classes without breaking the bank — and
across the country, school districts ordered them in droves... But
three years later, thousands of those laptops have already been
rendered useless... Oakland is not alone. In Southern California, the
Torrance Unified School District will lay to rest more than 20,000
Chromebooks"

---

Government bad, business good? Just below two examples, gov is trying
to help you, corporation is trying to take stuff away from you.

---

"@rcombs@treehouse.systems

aw fuck google's trying to make DRM for websites"

[[-]](https://github.com/RupertBenWiser/Web-Environment-Integrity/blob/main/explainer.md)

---

"Anil Dash@anildash@me.dm

This is genuinely exciting news — the FED has launched its system for
doing instant electronic payments, with 35 institutions already signed
on. Ask your credit union or bank when they’re launching support for
it. (And note which tech media give coverage to bullshit claims from
fascist CEOs purporting to build apps for this purpose, vs. actual
real implementations that serve everyone.)"

---

CleanTechnica: "Nikola Resurrection Only Tip Of Bosch Green Hydrogen
Scheme.. Bosch has teamed up with Nikola to make fuel cell truck
dreams come true, with a sharp eye on the global green hydrogen
economy of the future"

<img width='340' src='https://assets.bosch.com/media/global/stories/fuel_cell_truck_nikola_two/nikola-fuel-cell-powertrain_res_1600x900.jpg'/> 

---

"India's first hydrogen fuel cell intercity Bus unveiled by BharatBenz & Reliance Ind"

---

NDTV: "Gautam Adani Meets Lankan President, Port Project, Green
Hydrogen Plant Discussed"

---

Noah's Flood could have basis in reality. A '97 research says the
Black Sea was a lake but it flooded due to sea level rise around 7600
BC. Before (dark blue) and after (light blue) below. The event likely
gave rise to the story in the Bible which would've been witnessed by
the people nearby, the story made it into myth, then into religious
texts later.

[[-]](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/31/Black-sea-hist.png)

---

TechXplore: "Rice University engineers can turn sunlight into hydrogen
with record-breaking efficiency thanks to a device that combines
next-generation halide perovskite semiconductors with electrocatalysts
in a single, durable, cost-effective and scalable device"

[[-]](https://techxplore.com/news/2023-07-device-hydrogen-sunlight-efficiency.html)

---

"I can be whomever I want to be". That's not how it works. If that
were true there would still be Turks in Turkey.

---

Culturally they are all Protestants as everyone else in America. You
could conciously force yourself into certain choices of course but
they won't be knee-jerk cultural choices, they will be mostly
analytical, political ie weaker in effect than deep-seated
second-level cultural factory settings.

---

A lot minorities of a 'certain sect' are on SCOTUS.. This is not due
to a secret plan hatched up by that minority.  These people were
manuevered into those positions by the majority. Why? Well if you are
going to pick ultra free-market judges, who you want to be against
'excessive government', isn't it better to pick those judges from
among minorities? Minorities would feel the wariness against 'too much
government' for other reasons anyway due to their minority
status. That's the guy you want in there, a minority and a anti-gov
free-market nut, scared of government due to both ideology and
self-perceived minority status. He will aim to keep corp taxes low,
keep loopholes, please the rich because the alternative is bad, bad
government. 

---

Pearce, A-level bad guy.. great movie, despite Caviezel 😂

---

I want to say Bouchon like this guy.. I am practicing everyday

[[-]](https://youtu.be/QxdY1CwBzSM?t=5738)

---

Chocolate Bouchon

---

Where's Assange at?

---

US's own warship arrived before nuke subs that would belong to Australia

---

It shows up on my Navy tracker map now - \#USSCanberra

```python
df = u.usnavy(); u.sm_plot_list1(-12, 126, 8.0, np.array(df[['name','lat','lon']]))
```

[[-]](mbl/2023/usnavy4.jpg)

---

Arab News: "USS Canberra: US commissions first Navy warship in foreign
port.. The United States commissioned a warship in Sydney, Australia,
on Saturday, the first time a US Navy vessel joined active service at
a foreign port"

---

Researcher Bjarnason: "One of the issues.. that has perplexed me—has
been that many people are convinced that language models, or
specifically chat-based language models, are intelligent. But there
isn’t any mechanism inherent in large language models (LLMs) that
would seem to enable this..

LLMs are not brains and do not meaningfully share any of the
mechanisms that animals or people use to reason or think. LLMs are a
mathematical model of language tokens. You give a LLM text, and it
will give you a mathematically plausible response to that text. There
is no reason to believe that it thinks or reasons..

The intelligence illusion seems to be based on the same mechanism as
that of a psychic’s con, often called cold reading. It looks like an
accidental automation of the same basic tactic. By using validation
statements, such as sentences that use the Forer effect, the chatbot
and the psychic both give the impression of being able to make
extremely specific answers, but those answers are in fact
statistically generic"

[[-]](https://softwarecrisis.dev/letters/llmentalist/)

---

China-made hydrogen-powered smart tram to be exported to Malaysia

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GaBzBMkwTv8" title="China-made hydrogen-powered smart tram to be exported to Malaysia" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

H2 Central: "WATT Fuel Cell announced that it will supply 500
residential Imperium® Solid Oxide Fuel Cells to Hope Gas, Inc., a West
Virginia-based natural gas utility"

---

"@esther@strangeobject.space

I sometimes hear people make fun of the fact that Berlin has a huge
empty field right in its core area where Tempelhof airport used to
operate which is now a public park and left almost entirely unchanged,
runways and all. They talk about it as if it's an example of the
city's inability to do something 'useful' with this land. And what
they mean is build stuff on it.

But just the way it is, it is hugely popular among the people of
Berlin, it's a unique space where the sheer size of it enables anyone
to basically do whatever without annoying anyone else. Even at peak
times like Saturday afternoon, it still doesn't feel crowded and the
further away from the edges you go the emptier it gets. It refuses any
commercial 'usefulness' and instead gives people space to use how they
see fit. It's absolutely beautiful"

---


"@ben@werd.social

It's an interesting grift in a way: VC-subsidized startups changed an
incumbent industry enough that its existing companies began to think
that these new ideas were good business. But they never were, and it
ate them from the inside"

---

LA Times: "[Netflix's] ambitions were hypercharged by a newfangled
sense that it could disrupt the old school Hollywood industry and
scale endlessly.. As with Uber and Lyft, whose bottomless chests of
venture capital allowed them to conquer new markets once dominated by
stodgy old competitors.. [but] Netflix et al. adopted another key
ingredient of Silicon Valley’s approach: secrecy. Data about shows’
performance and viewer habits were kept proprietary; we knew only what
the streamers wanted us to know...

It’s a sticking point in the negotiations — actors and writers on
streaming series want a better way to calculate the value of their
work, given that the residuals they earn are so much lower than for
network or cable shows. The studios have resisted. 'The reason nobody
really wants to open the books on this is because if Wall Street got a
look,' one Hollywood insider told New York Magazine, 'they’d have a
collective stroke.'..

The boom times are over. Executives know it. Wall Street knows it. And
the story that we’re in a revolutionary moment of technological
transformation will run out of gas soon. So the bosses are using that
moment to do what Silicon Valley wound up doing when its other big
swings didn’t pan out: squeeze labor"

---

But it is hilarious how entitled the corp f--ker is - he thinks he is
the essential actor in this picture, rather than the OSS guy when in
fact the situation is completely the other way around. \#FOSS

---

Name coincidence, H2 is just a software product 

"alan@lan@mastodon.de

lol ?"

[[-]](https://mastodon.de/system/media_attachments/files/110/734/373/555/171/394/small/afb5e1898970742a.jpg)

---

"@vjprema@fosstodon.org

Many are turning to Lemmy as a viable Reddit alternative..  As an avid
Fediverse user, my primary identity is on a Mastodon server. Since
Lemmy uses ActivityPub, I thought that maybe I can just cross post
into Lemmy..  despite it being a quite different type of app.. It
turns out... It works!! Yes, it's possible to upvote, post, reply and
follow anything on Lemmy, through my existing Mastodon account"

---

"@donni@mastodon.social

Animals are basically always camping"

---

Somewhat mountainous.. 

```python
u.sm_plot_khali(0.1,show_elevation=True)
```

[[-]](mbl/2023/khali2.jpg)

---

Suwalki Gap - the route is not that long

```python
u.sm_plot_khali()
```

[[-]](mbl/2023/khali1.jpg)

---

EWN: "12 GW solar-to-hydrogen facility to be built in Mozambique,
South Africa to follow suit.. Once up and running, it's expected that
4,000 tonnes of hydrogen will be produced at this facility"

---

The Guardian: "An inconvenient truth: you can’t sell the green
revolution to people who can’t afford it..  a narrow majority of
Londoners still favour expanding the [ultra low emission zone], but
it’s markedly more popular among middle-class professionals than low
earners who can’t afford to trade in spluttering old diesels"

---

Al Jazeera: "Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has expressed
concern about Israel’s policies, saying that he has no immediate plans
to invite his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu to the country"

---

"Netanyahu.. boasts of having derailed the Oslo accords with political
trickery [in a 2001 tape] 'I de facto put an end to the Oslo accords,'
the then-former prime minister bragged. Since the accords state that
Israel would be allowed to hang on to pre-defined military zones in
the West Bank, Netanyahu told his hosts that he could torpedo the
accords by defining vast swaths of land as just that.. 'They asked me
before the election if I’d honor [the Oslo accords],' Netanyahu
detailed. 'I said I would, but … I’m going to interpret the accords in
such a way that would allow me to put an end to this galloping forward
to the 67 borders. How did we do it? Nobody said what defined military
zones were. Defined military zones are security zones; as far as I’m
concerned, the entire Jordan Valley is a defined military zone. Go
argue.'"

[[-]](https://bennorton.com/netanyahu-oslo-accords-beat-up-palestinians/)

---

"@brembs@mastodon.social

What do these developments have in common?

- Libraries are running institutional \#repositories

- Scholarly organizations are hosting #mastodon instances

- the EU council decides to foster \#openscience infrastructures

- The EU launches #CoARA to deprecate \#bibliometrics and journal brand

They are all steps towards replacing academic journals"

---

European Commision: "[T]he EU and Argentina have taken a further step
in their energy cooperation with the signature of a [MoU]. Signed by
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and the President
of the Argentine Republic Alberto Fernández..the MoU sets out key
areas of cooperation, including renewable energy, hydrogen and methane
emissions abatement"

---

`Pillow` and `MetPy` are both, of course, open source as in *free*.

---

I added wbt feature to my climate report page, checked it a few times
today, I can confirm wet-bulb 25 C is extremely uncomfortable (31 C is
death, per info below).

---

```python
from metpy.calc import dewpoint_from_relative_humidity, wet_bulb_temperature
from metpy.units import units
T = 46; H = 50; P = 1000

dew = dewpoint_from_relative_humidity(T * units.degC, H * units.percent)
wet_bulb_temperature(P * units.hPa, T * units.degC, dew)
```

```text
Out[1]: 35.12274652837743 <Unit('degree_Celsius')>
```

---

There are codes out there that can calculate wet-bulb temp

---

TDB: "'When will it get too hot for normal daily activity as we know
it, even for young, healthy adults?'... The answer goes beyond the
temperature you see on the thermometer. It’s also about humidity. Our
research is designed to come up with the combination of the two,
measured as “wet-bulb temperature.”.. a study published in 2010..
theorized that a wet-bulb temperature of 95 F (35 C)—equal to a
temperature of 95 F at 100% humidity, or 115 F at 50% humidity – would
be the upper limit of safety... Our studies on young healthy men and
women show that this upper environmental limit is even lower than the
theorized 35 C. It occurs at a wet-bulb temperature of about 87 F (31
C)"

---

Dessler: "Cherry picking is a tactic where someone selectively chooses
a small portion of a data.. the central United States [was the
exception] – the region that saw extreme warmth during the dust bowl
era – where summertime maximum temperatures were indeed higher in the
1930s. It is this small blue region in the central U.S. that
contrarians are focusing on when they argue that the 1930s had worse
heat waves. Obviously, focusing on that one region gives a deeply
misleading picture of the evolution of summer heat globally"

---

"@andrewdessler@mastodon.world

Climate misinformers are pushing the '1930s was warmer' trope. This is
classic cherry picking"

---

H2 Central: "The German government wants to use hydrogen for
decarbonising road transport and heating, in addition to industry,
according to a highly anticipated revamp of the national hydrogen
strategy, which was leaked to business daily Handelsblatt"

---

Resize code has built-in interpolation.. If eg 90x90 is resized to
300x300 that means a lot empty new pixels that need to be
filled. Missing values are interpolated from existing pixels.

---

Using image processing code on terrain data.. now that's an
idea. Elevation can be seen as gray pixel values, then zoom is like
crop and resize. Worked brilliantly (and fast, via `Pillow` pkg).

---

Wrote about this before, about a (very simplistic) proof equating
compression with computational learning. In this bizarre way they
defined it compression does equal learning, so it's no surprise actual
compression algo equals big clunky neural nets.

---

Neural net "AI" gets beaten by simple compression 😂

"'Low-Resource' Text Classification.. Deep neural networks (DNNs) are
often used for text classification.. However, DNNs can be
computationally intensive, requiring millions of parameters and large
amounts of labeled data, which can make them expensive to use, to
optimize, and to transfer to out-of-distribution (OOD) cases in
practice. In this paper, we propose a non-parametric alternative to
DNNs that’s easy, lightweight, and universal in text classification: a
combination of a simple compressor like gzip with a k-nearest-neighbor
classifier. Without any training parameters, our method achieves
results that are competitive with non-pretrained deep learning methods
on six in-distribution datasets"

[[-]](https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-acl.426/)

---

Wiki: "Death Valley is a desert valley in Eastern California, in the
northern Mojave Desert.. It is thought to be the hottest place on
Earth during summer.. On June 30, 2013, a verified temperature of..
54.0 °C was recorded.. The valley again recorded that temperature on
July 9, 2021"

---

The Guardian: "A unique partnership.. is promising to establish a $3bn
green hydrogen project in the far north of Western Australia. In what
could be one of Australia’s biggest clean energy projects, more than a
million solar panels will power electrolysers to produce 50,000 tonnes
of green hydrogen a year.

A new company – Aboriginal Clean Energy – will develop the ambitious
project near the town of Kununurra. Three Indigenous groups will each
have an initial 25% share in the company alongside climate crisis
investment and advisory firm Pollination"

---

Andy Kalmowitz: "It's Too Hot For EVs To Work Right.. The heat wave
affecting much of the U.S. may be causing electric vehicles to lose
nearly a third of their range"

---

CNBC: "Disney pulling back on making Marvel, Star Wars content, Iger
says.. Iger said the explosion in Marvel TV shows in recent years
'diluted focus and attention' for the brand"

---

Thunderball - Domino \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/vROtTDNbd2I)

---

Maybe Cook learned a thing or two from the Kraut.. The Chinese
tho were the original [inventors](https://www.thespruceeats.com/sauerkraut-the-quintessential-eastern-european-vegetable-1137498)
of the idea.

---

Captain Cook brought pickled cabbage, sauerkraut with him to all his
voyages. It can be preserved efficiently, and cabbage has lots health
benefits. Some laughed at him but his crew avoided scurvy, he had the
last laugh.

---

Marinated, dried, baked poultry is great... Possible to live on it,
and other outdoor-friendly preservation tricks, dried fruits, pickled
vegs even. No need for a fridge.

---

2022 renewables share percentage of energy consumption - data from BP

```python
dict((k,u.renew_perc_bp(k)) for k in ['Total World','US','China','Norway','Australia','Germany'])
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Total World': 6.71,
 'US': 8.05,
 'China': 7.18,
 'Norway': 6.46,
 'Australia': 10.3,
 'Germany': 18.03}
```

---

Freedom

WION: "Alarming stats, in charts: US has more gun dealers than
McDonald's, Starbucks outlets put together"

---

Marvel is partly working the government scare angle still.. in the
hopes that people will want "the free market" to save them and accept
econ inequality as necessary, and tax corporations less? 🤨 

---

The viewership numbers point the way; MCU's are mostly in the dump,
whereas people loved the DCU small budget *Joker* that didn't even
have a Batman in it.

---

Gunn picked Sman as the first movie he'll do as new head of DC
Studios? The emphasis was that Supes is a nice person.. This is a
change of tone, Marvel had started around a jagoff billionaire
(Stark), on DCU although Snyder did SM first they immediately inserted
their billionaire into it (B. Wayne) and tried to rearrange things
around him (and failed), we also know Snyder's plan for Supes was that
he'd eventually turn evil. The new DCU tone sounds different; Clark
Kent is small town, rural type of person anyway, not a bilionaire
jagoff, meaning the reboot will be centered around more relatable
characters. Even their reimagined Bats sounds like will be more human
than before.

---

iOS is based on BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution), and Android has
open source Linux at its core. Free stuff makes the world go around.

---

\#Tlaib \#Palestine

[[-]](https://youtu.be/aDgX7St2wgU?t=2)

---

Axios: "There's no safe port in a changing climate. Americans who move
from one region to another are increasingly citing climate change as
at least one driving factor.. Yet nowhere is truly safe from extreme
weather, some of which is fueled by climate change... Case in point:
The recent catastrophic flooding in Vermont, a state that often ranks
high on lists of so-called 'climate havens.'"

---
