# Week 50

It is bad for Ukranians but Russian army without the Wagner chief
seems to be fighting better than with him around. Guy was an
"enterpreneur" right, always marketing himself meaning unnecessarily
talking out of his ass that also breke discipline. Such acts do not
work in high-risk occupations like war. The free-market is fine for
selling shoelacees or candy and shit, but for anything more
serious, the goveronment ha to be invvolved. Hierarchy exists in such
domains for a reason. THe "Maverick" stuff is for movies. 

---

"@FNB_Gas@mastodon.energy

Today Federal Minister Robert Habeck together with our CEO Dr. Thomas
Gößmann presented the draft of the #hydrogen core network. This puts #
Germany at the forefront of building the # hydrogen infrastructure in
Europe...

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlRTcjfcyNA)

Through the project by ONTRAS, Gascade and terranets bw, # H2 can be
transported from 2025...

[Image](https://sfo3.digitaloceanspaces.com/cdn.mastodon.energy/media_attachments/files/111/441/780/504/653/241/original/cce828ba2d7611c8.jpg)

New construction or conversion from natural gas to # hydrogen ?
Switching also means: faster implementation, lower costs, lower
consumption of resources. This is good for the economy and the
environment.

The #hydrogen core network will predominantly consist of converted
natural gas pipelines as well as new hydrogen pipelines to be built.

The #hydrogen core network does not only consist of TNB lines. It also
takes into account 710 km of lines from distribution system operators
and other pipeline system operators.

[Map](https://sfo3.digitaloceanspaces.com/cdn.mastodon.energy/media_attachments/files/111/414/482/649/824/129/original/f292e6332bbce3c4.png)

The @bundestag passed a comprehensive reform of the Energy Industry
Act (#EnWG) on November 10 , 2023 . It removes the main hurdles for
hydrogen network planning that resulted from the transitional
regulation for hydrogen networks.

The #hydrogen core network is to be financed entirely through network
fees. To achieve this, fees must be capped in the ramp-up phase...

The next big step towards the #hydrogen core network: FNB Gas presents
the draft of the core network"

[[-]](https://fnb-gas.de/news/der-naechste-grosse-schritt-zum-wasserstoff-kernnetz/)

---

Reuters: "[A] court ruling last month threw the [DE] government's
finances into disarray...The coalition has agreed to plug a
17-billion-euro ($18.32 billion) hole in its budget for 2024 by
cutting climate-damaging subsidies, spending in some ministries and
federal grants.

A climate and transformation fund, designed to support companies'
transition towards greener practices, will be reduced by 12 billion
euros in 2024 and by 45 billion euros in the financial planning up to
2027, although Scholz said the fund will still have a total volume of
160 billion euros"

---

The political subtext is not always agreable, as in *6 Underground*
but the stories, action are fine, beats watching anything
Woke.

---

*State of Play*, *The Magnificent Seven*, *3:10 to Yuma*, *Game Night*,
*6 Underground*. All good works.

---

Battery-electric tech is subpar, suboptimal, in terms of TCO it is a
hellish nightmare. Even with all else were equal with clean molecule
alternative (it isn't) the insufficiency of lithium for all storage
needs would disqualify this tech from any widespread adoption.

---

Paper: "[W]hy does range anxiety exist for BEVs’ consumers? We guess
consumers’ range anxiety mainly comes from two aspects: First, one
cause of range anxiety could be that the real range of BEVs differs
greatly from the nominal AER announced by automotive
companies. Especially when the air conditioning is on, and the battery
performance decreases in winter, it results in a lower real range. For
example, the real range of BEVs is approximately 35%–40% lower than
the nominal range (at minus 7) in cold regions of China... The
second.. anxiety is charging anxiety. It is mainly due to the
imperfect charging infrastructure, consumers’ inability to find
charging piles in time, or charging time being too long, especially
when battery charging is not on the consumers’ schedule"

---

Apparently e-jagoff kept whining in the last earnings call, a vlogger made
[this](http://img.youtube.com/vi/4QBt19hZyYI/0.jpg).

---

TSLA earnings not good?

---

Freight Trains: Last Week Tonight with John Oliver 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/AJ2keSJzYyY?t=169)

---

Offshore Energy: "UK reveals winners of first hydrogen allocation
round.. UK government has concluded the first hydrogen allocation
round (HAR1) and selected eleven projects, totaling 125 MW capacity,
to receive over £2 billion (around $2.5 billion) of revenue support
from the Hydrogen Production Business Model"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.offshorewind.biz/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2023/12/14111841/UK-reveals-winners-of-first-hydrogen-allocation-round-1024x689.jpg?image-crop-positioner-ts=1702549128'/> 

---

"@zuck@threads.net

Starting a test where posts from Threads accounts will be available on
Mastodon and other services that use the ActivityPub protocol. Making
Threads interoperable will give people more choice over how they
interact and it will help content reach more people. I'm pretty
optimistic about this"

---

"@ben@werd.social

Threads is starting its initial real fediverse integration (as it
launches into the EU). Exciting times"

---

Mediaite: "'Are you concerned that if there's no money, Ukraine could
lose the war to Russia?' [reporter] asked [Senator] Tuberville. 'Well,
that's always been a big possibility the whole time. I mean, I've
never thought they could win to begin with'"

---

\#Ukraine \#Frontline

12/01 - 12/13

[[-]](ukrmap4.html)

---

"@tante

@malteengeler yes. Springer and a lying machine fit together like a glove"

---

"@malteengeler@legal.social

@tante Just as with crypto or blockchain: Look at who is adopting and
promoting it and you get a good picture of what ideas lie at the core
of a technology"

---

"@tante@tldr.nettime.org

A match made in hell..."

[[-]](https://tldr.nettime.org/system_nettime/media_attachments/files/111/574/314/556/123/687/original/828ac878e5fff39d.png)

---

"Could not protect" or purposely sold the data for munee. 

The Guardian: "[05/24] Tesla has failed to adequately protect data
from customers, employees and business partners and has received
thousands of customer complaints regarding the carmaker’s driver
assistance system, Germany’s Handelsblatt has reported, citing 100
gigabytes of confidential data leaked by a whistleblower"

---

Arab News: "56 UK parliamentarians demand Israeli settler travel ban"

---

\#Boycott \#Companies

via @Buster@mastodon.scot

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/572/503/955/696/440/original/cff44c3e89f5576e.png)

---

Things are getting worse for Biden but he still has an electoral
advantage though it is decreasing with sinking net approval. How lower
is low? Even with net approv -20 and 2% growth incumb seems
[fine](../../0119/2015/04/predicting-presidential-elections.html#2024), but
if econ goes sideways there will be trouble.

---

```python
u.biden_approval()['net'].tail(4)
```

```text
Out[1]: 
end_date
2023-12-10   -17.583314
2023-12-11   -17.578400
2023-12-12   -17.317512
2023-12-13   -16.980148
```
---

NYT: "[2023/09] Americans Are Down on Biden.. [but d]espite a flood of
negative polls for Democrats, the party has delivered a string of
strong results in special elections"

---

CCR: "Palestinians Sue Biden for Failure to Prevent Genocide, Seek
Emergency Order to Stop Military and Diplomatic Support for Israeli
Government’s Assault on Gaza.. Leading Genocide and Holocaust Experts
Submit Declarations in Support of Federal Case..

William Schabas, the world’s leading legal expert on genocide, wrote
in his declaration in the case, 'I conclude that there is a serious
risk of genocide committed against the Palestinian population of Gaza
and that the United States of America is in breach of its obligation,
under both the 1948 Genocide Convention to which it is a party as well
as customary international law, to use its position of influence with
the Government of Israel and to take the best measures within its
power to prevent the crime taking place'"

---

H2 Insight: "French president promises 'massive funding' for natural
hydrogen.. Macron says he wants France to ‘become one of the
pioneering countries' in the production of so-called white H2"

---

H2 Council: "Hydrogen project pipeline grows by 35% since January 2023
despite macro-economic headwinds"

---

"@miguel_pacheco@masto.pt

First world #hydrogen #tugboat to start operations in 2024

- Will work on Antwerp port

- 415kg of compressed hydrogen = 24h operation

- 65-ton bollard pull capabilities

- Two combustion 12 V engines w/ 2 MW power each"

---

AP News: "Former Fox host Tucker Carlson is launching his own streaming
network with interviews and commentary"

---

Al-Monitor: "Israel came under pressure Wednesday from its allies over
its war in Gaza.. The United Nations General Assembly also
overwhelmingly backed a non-binding resolution demanding an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire in the devastated territory".

---

\#Office

[[-]](https://media.mas.to/masto-public/media_attachments/files/111/545/806/012/892/803/original/62ced25546899b51.png)

---

Politico.eu: "A sure way to rankle an Austrian is to mention an
upcoming Austria-Hungary football match and then ask who is the
opponent.. [Recently w]hether the issue involves Ukraine, Russia, or
even the Israel-Hamas conflict, the impression in EU circles is that
the pair are singing from the same songbook"

---

\#Ukraine \#DW

[[-]](https://youtu.be/O7MVN2Az7G0?t=127)

---

There is this incessant talk of "game changing weapons" as it relates to
Ukraine. Such talk could be part of a marketing campaign triggered by
the private "defense" industry. There is always the next bright shiny
object that people are made to chase like a gaping fish.

---

Looked at which members in Congress receive the most campaign
contributions from the "complex". Cuck Schumer sits at number two.
Obviously this guy wants more arms to go to all major conflict zones.

---

Thanks to decades of neoliberalism the rich started to see themselves,
their very presence a public good. The reality is quite the
reverse. In excess they are a threat to public's well-being, and to
the Republic.

---

Simple, since money is printed during loan, that money will be
destroyed once the loan is paid back.

"What happens when a loan is paid back to the org that printed the money?"

---

Is there a contradiction between RU's stance on Ukraine and support of
Palestine? I don't think so. From their POV they could easily claim
Russians in east of Ukraine are like Palestenians with bigger guns and
better friends.

---

H2 Central: "The Garuda Hidrogen Hijau Project [Indonesia], which is
expected to start commercial operations in 2026, will run on 600 MW of
solar and wind power, and will produce 165,000 tons (150,000 tonnes)
of green ammonia per year. The cost of the project is estimated to be
upwards of US$1 billion"

---

Latest neural net based approaches in their essence get one isolated
datapoint, and one label (prediction target) per training cycle
(batching can be done but that is an implementation trick). Truly
representing, using sequence has always been a problem for NNs. In one
approach you *cheat* by taking in enough pre-sequenced data as a
snapshot. One datapoint can have, eg "cat sat on the" which is paired
with label "mat". Then shift tokens one to the right in the bigger
sentence, next isolated datapoint is "sat on the mat and" with new
label "shat". For full sentences you ask NN multiple times, with
different pieces, you get a sequenced -ish looking output, you might
get "cat sat on the mat and shat". There is no planning, no true
sequencing. One datapoint has no relation to the next. That's what I
meant previously when I said these things are, at their core,
extremely dumb.

---

Howard: "Something I think pretty much everyone..  including Yann LeCun
agrees on is LLMs aren't going to make it. They're not a path to
ASI. They're getting more and more expensive, they're getting more and
more slow, and the more we use them the more we realize their
limitations...

The thing you can really see missing here is this this planning piece,
so if you try to get an LLM to solve like fairly simple graph coloring
problems, or fairly simple stacking problems, things that require
backtracking and trying things and stuff, they, unless it's seen
something pretty similar in its training, they just fail terribly...

We need to be working on this missing piece, because a
step-by-step solution to a math problem is something that currently is
pretty challenging for an LLM to do well"

---

Jeremy Howard says in terms of goal for AI, we should actually be
talking about ASI (A. Super Intelligence) instead of AGI. He is right,
current crop of tools are pretty general, they shoot the shit on
topics like a random jagoff who can read Wikipedia. But that's not
what we want.. we don't want general intelligence, we want
consistently good intelligence that can perform any task previously
done by a regular human, better, consistently. Give this thing a math
problem, it should be able to solve it, not generate random musings
about it like a halucinating stochastic parrot. It should fly, not
fall with style.

---

I actively avoid this faux AI shit like the plague myself

---

"@jedbrown@hachyderm.io

I search for a topic and find a blog post. As I read the title and
first sentence, it sounds like I'm going to learn something. 😃 As I
read on, it's increasingly basic, disjoint, and sloppy about things I
know. I scan to the end:

> Did you like this article? Well I didn’t fully write it. I just
  re-assembled GPT-4 answers to my own questions for anyone with the
  same doubts!

😞

Thank you, kind author, for disclosing, but I need this information
up-front. I want expertise, not a forgery of it"

---

DW News: "Why has the Ukrainian army not been able to breach Russian lines?" 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/O7MVN2Az7G0?t=95)

---

CSIS: "Some Israelis and outside analysts had come to believe that
serving as Gaza’s governing body for nearly two decades had moderated
[Hamas'] stance on the conflict and resistance to Israel, with the
group accepting that a massive assault would be counterproductive. On
the surface, at least, Hamas seemed to back up this perceived change
with actions...

Was this strategy just a front while the group planned the October 7
attack? Perhaps. But Israel and the international community did not
make a major shift in their policies in response to Hamas’s
moderation. There were limited economic concessions and statements
acknowledging Hamas’s role in governing Gaza. At the same time, there
was incendiary far-right political rhetoric and rising levels of
violence against Palestinians. Both 2021 and 2022 set records as the
deadliest years for Palestinians, as the Netanyahu government
green-lit the expansion of settlements in the West Bank and settlers
themselves conducted pogroms against Palestinians" via @wilbr@glitch.social

[[-]](https://www.csis.org/analysis/why-hamas-attacked-when-it-did)

---

NYT: "‘Buying Quiet’: Inside the Israeli Plan That Propped Up
Hamas.. Netanyahu gambled that a strong Hamas (but not too strong)
would keep the peace and reduce pressure for a Palestinian state"

---

The Guardian: "Foreign investors in Australia will face higher fees
and steeper penalties for buying existing homes and leaving them empty
as the government aims to address housing affordability"

---

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.masto.host/mastopt/cache/preview_cards/images/007/693/280/original/d53d97cb9ac1b3dd.jpg'/> 

"@miguel_pacheco@masto.pt

Hylane GmbH, after a year of renting hydrogen commercial vehicles

- Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles work as a mature technology already

- Hylane wants to expand its hydrogen fleet

- Freight capacity and refill times approved by customers

- Driving ranges overperform frequently: up to 800 Km from manufacturers stated 450 Km"

---

TASS: "'Russia-Japan green energy cooperation should not be affected
by politics.. Cooperation between Russia and Japan in the formation
and growth of supply chains for LNG, hydrogen, fuel ammonia, wood
pellets and the development of the entire green technology complex
would benefit not only our countries, but the entire world,' [RU
official] Natalya Stapran said"

---

"JohanEmpa@mastodon.green

All new buildings should be zero-emission as of 2030 Buildings
account for 36% of EU greenhouse-gas emissions"

---

\#JoshPaul

[[-]](https://youtu.be/o5106v4b05I?t=192)

---

"@Karenawokekaren@sfba.social

Banner at today's March for Palestine London"

[[-]](https://files.sfba.social/media_attachments/files/111/551/068/898/804/117/small/6e2b9deb5fc6b96d.jpg)

---

European Court of Justice was one of the things the Brexiters whined
about the most, because remember, they wanted to "take back their
freedom" and not be subject to opressive European laws through ECJ
enforcement.

But I bet their whining wasn't as much about taking back their local
independence but about wanting to keep using this ICSID system where,
I suspect, Anglo companies are favored more. IOW Brexiters wanted to
go back to the shady multinational system they helped found where
their rich feel more "at home", rather than be more equal terms with
their European neighbors.

---

"[2022/03] The conflict between international investment treaty arbitration and EU law"

[[-]](https://www.shoosmiths.com/insights/articles/the-conflict-between-international-investment-treaty-arbitration-and-eu-law)

---

"[2023/07] German Court Says EU Members Can Evade ICSID Arbitration"

---

I wonder how ICSID stacks up against the EU's own arbitration

---

The days of empire are over. Corporate muppets are running the show now.

---

It doesn't look like ICSID is essential for pulling foreign
investment, Brasil is out of this system and it gets FDI just fine.

---

A corp even once sued the Egyptian government for raising the minimum
wage through this bizarre arbitration system. Why have national
governments laws etc then? Just have these muckers write laws for you.

---

They've already done huge damage in El Salvador, South Africa...

---

A shady arbitration system ICSID, part of World Bank. Sounds
and is shady.. Unequal, opressive and an obstracle for developing
countries.

\#Kennard \#ICSID

[[-]](https://youtu.be/vDsp2apG5zQ?t=355)

---

\#Reagan \#Lebanon

[[-]](https://youtu.be/XrXawZBGG9A?t=375)

---

The Nation: "The 'Hunt for Hamas' Narrative Is Obscuring Israel’s Real
Plans for Gaza.. The US press and politicians are trying to fit the
attacks on Gaza into a Zero Dark Thirty mold, but it’s something much
simpler—and sinister... The government is doing forcible population
transfers, and this means everyone. It’s the simplest way to explain
Israel’s actions, yet American media—tied to 'counterterror'
narratives—can’t, or won’t, get their minds around the obvious fact
that Israel is attempting to depopulate Gaza in stages"

---

UK abstained? That's good for UK. The support from Japan is noteworthy.

AP News: "US vetoes UN resolution backed by many nations demanding
immediate humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza.. The council called the
emergency meeting to hear from Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who
for the first time invoked Article 99 of the U.N. Charter, which
enables a U.N. chief to raise threats he sees to international peace
and security...

The vote in the 15-member council was 13-1, with the United Kingdom
abstaining. The United States’ isolated stand reflected a growing
fracture between Washington and some of its closest allies over
Israel’s monthslong bombardment of Gaza. France and Japan were among
those supporting the call for a cease-fire"

---

