# Week 34

Arab News: "India’s Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping agree on
efforts to de-escalate border tensions"

---

Firstpost: "Dutch brewer Heineken exits Russia, stares at whopping
$320 million in losses"

---

Ng keeps saying LLMs build a "world model". That's not exactly
correct. Any data structure mimicing data could be labeled this way..
Recently simple compression beat a neural net classifier, compression
algos usually have an internal tree structure, is that tree a world
model? This is nonsense.

---

Hinton is the "Godfather of AI" mentioned before (actually he is one
of the three people who brought neural net approach to weak AI). Ng is
also a known name in the field, he was widely credited as the first
researcher to bring GPU usage for neural "deep" learning.

---

Hinton [talking to Andrew Ng]: "We need the AI researchers to reach a
consensus [on whether recent neural net based approaches can actually
think] in much the same way as climate scientists have consensus on
climate change. We need consensus because politicians and other
decision makers are going to be looking for technical opinions from
the researchers, but if the AI researchers have all sorts of different
opinions, then they're going to pick and choose whatever suits them"

---

"baldur@toot.cafe

'Netflix and other streamers wield too much power over labor. Use
antitrust law to break them up'. The old vertical studio system was
broken up by the Justice Department. It may be time to do the same
with these 21st century behemoths"

---

"World's First Futuristic Hydrogen Tram will be in Sarawak, Malaysia!"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/CArT23BsbTk?t=52)

---

Agriculture is still mostly stuck in pre-modern age. There should be
no need for soil, pesticides, huge horizontal areas and all the
culture / law that is tied to these things... High-tech agro can be in
a completely controlled, isolated environment where all aspects of it
are independently optimized.. Huge amt of land is wasted as farmland
now, they can be reclaimed, greened (and made public).

---

These guys produce good vegs in a vertical setting - Agrotonomy.

<iframe height="150" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hCQHwimJFGM" title="Vertical Farming with Aeroponics: Top 7 Benefits of a Tower Farm" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Vertical farm cabbage, lab-manufacture poultry... That'll do. Some
spices wld be nice too, ginger, turmeric

---

Personally more used to the former.. Kefir never became a staple in
Anatolia for some reason even though it is hugely popular in the
Caucasus and Russia.

---

Yogurt marinade works well, if kefir is not around. 

---

Newsweek: "Life, Liberty and Right to Repair.. Frustrations with this
experience have created a global "right to repair" movement to require
manufacturers to make repairing their products easier... In the past,
when an expensive consumer product stopped working, the owner could
take it somewhere and get it fixed. More recently, when a product
stops working, the owner often hears, "We can't fix this, you have to
buy a new one." This is because as products become more complex and
more digital, access to physical parts alone is often insufficient to
repair many products"

---

Stat: "Kellogg's is going to war over Mexico's nutrition label
rules. A similar fight is coming to the U.S... A 2019 policy requires
companies that make unhealthy foods to include warning labels on the
front of any boxes they sell in Mexico to educate consumers about
things like excess sugar and fat. Any food with a warning label — like
Kellogg's Fruit Loops or its Frosted Flakes, which typically contain
more than 37 grams of added sugar in a 100-gram serving — is also
banned from including a mascot on its packaging...

Kellogg's isn't the only company throwing everything they have at
fighting Mexico’s policy, and finding loopholes to exploit. Companies
like Coca-Cola and Kraft Heinz have begun designing their products so
that their packages don’t have a true front or back, but rather two
nearly identical labels — except for the fact that only one side has
the required warning. As a result, supermarket clerks often place the
products with the warning facing inward, effectively hiding it"

---

MIT Technology Review: "The moon is a treasure trove of valuable
resources... But there’s one resource in particular that has excited
scientists, rocket engineers, space agency officials, industry
entrepreneurs—virtually anyone with a vested interest in making
spaceflight to distant worlds more affordable. It’s water. Why? If you
split water into hydrogen and oxygen, and then liquefy those
constituents, you have rocket fuel"

---

DOJ: "Justice Department Sues SpaceX for Discriminating Against
Asylees and Refugees in Hiring"

---

The City: "NYC Lost 100K Homes in Apartment-to-House Conversions"

---

H2 Central: "OSM Thome and PGS Collaborate on Ammonia-Fuelled Vessels"

---

@erinwhalen@mindly.social

.. France has launched an initiative to reduce textile waste by paying
people to repair their clothes instead of throwing them out.

---

"@futurebird@sauropods.win

Anyone who says that 'government health care would mean bureaucracy'
hasn't dealt w/ CVS caremark"

---

Allahi Allah (Carmen Rizzo Remix) \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/HhXkYGJ5vyw)

---

Hawaiian natives did not all of a sudden materialize in that place, or
"evolve" as Hawaiian FYI. The first inhabitants arrived there from
somewhere else, quite recently in fact compare to our total
history. The route seems to be Africa, Arabian Peninsula, India,
China, Papua New Guinea, Somoa, Hawaii. Some from that branch went to
Madagascar, so Hawaiian-like people could perhaps be found there.

[[-]](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/8b/Early_migrations_mercator.svg/700px-Early_migrations_mercator.svg.png)

---

Not much of a vacation

The Independent: "Italy warns tourists to avoid sun from 10am until
6pm as heatwave expected"

---

HS Today: "The new H2Rescue Emergency Relief Truck (H2Rescue), which
started as an ambitious idea years ago, is now a full prototype
demonstrating the feasibility and value of this concept.

'I don’t think people fully appreciate what it means to not have
power, you don’t realize how critical it is for communities until you
don’t have it,' said S&T Under Secretary Dr. Dimitri Kusnezov, who saw
the vehicle up close at a demonstration at the U.S. Department of
Energy headquarters in June.

H2Rescue is a zero-emission, hydrogen powered truck that can carry a
total load of about 33,000 pounds (truck and cargo) into disaster
zone. It is equipped with a mobile command center and the capability
to generate enough power to run about 15 homes for three days,
accomplished with only water vapor coming out of the tailpipe. Where
traditional diesel trucks use their limited carrying capacity to
transport generators that emit exhaust into the environment, H2Rescue
is the generator—emitting nothing but steam"

[[-]](https://www.hstoday.us/federal-pages/dhs/using-hydrogen-to-power-disaster-relief/)

---

"@CLondoner92@mastodon.cloud

\#Citybus #HongKong: First #Hydrogen Refuelling Station on Hong Kong
Island and Parallel Testing of 5 Hydrogen Double Deck Buses Receives
Agreement in Principle"

---

In the light of this findings the extraterrestrial Oumuamua claim
becomes less likely. Had already downgraded the extraterrestrial UFO
views, noone can produce anything other than grainy videos, plus most
of the proponents of said theories are cultural leftist, or right-wing
anti-government fucknuts who like to associate all kinds of
bizarreness with the government so they can "limit it" when they are
in power.

---

It turns out the theory where Oumuamua was emitting gas, propelling it
forward still has legs.. People were wondering how OM could speed that
fast, the H2 iceberg (melting causing the gas formation) claim was
debunked but there is newer, more plausible one.

[[-]](../../2022/06/oumuamua.html#h2gas)

---

"gerrymcgovern@mastodon.green

'Wireless technologies require 10 times more energy than wired
technology to transfer each unit of data and voice and do so at much
slower rates than fiber optic cable'"

---

IAEA had okayed it, they did not look at all aspects?

CNBC: "China suspends all seafood imports from Japan after treated
radioactive water is released from Fukushima"

---

IMO they were going to let Prigozhin live (could've been useful in
Africa) but he likely started talking out of his ass again, pissed off
someone... Now he dead.

---

The Guardian: "Brics to admit six new countries to bloc.. Argentina,
Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the UAE are to become full
members from 1 January 2024, the group announced at its summit in
South Africa"

---

\#gopdebate

"The elephant not in the room" - that's right

---

\#gopdebate

Some fine comments on Ukraine, immigration, other than that nothing 
noteworthy...

---

\#gopdebate

It is lively

---

"@EESC@social.network.europa.eu

Did you know that 5.8 million tonnes of textiles are thrown away every
year, nearly 11 kilos per person? We endorse the European Commission’s
proposal to make producers responsible for the full lifecycle of
textile products and to support the sustainable management of textile
waste across the EU"

---

404 Media: "Most Americans have very little choice but to provide
their personal information to credit bureaus. Hackers have found a way
into that data supply chain, and are advertising access in group chats
used by violent criminals who rob, assault, and shoot
targets... Senator Ron Wyden [said] 'These companies have demonstrated
that they can't control who has access to their data products. The
government needs to stop these companies from packaging and selling
our personal information, and the senior executives that put profit
over national security and Americans' safety should be punished
accordingly'"

[[-]](https://www.404media.co/the-secret-weapon-hackers-can-use-to-dox-nearly-anyone-in-america-for-15-tlo-usinfosearch-transunion/)

---

WION: "Kids in US most likely to die due to use of firearms, reveals study"

---

Informed Comment: "Drilling our way to Climate Doom: The US leads the
World in Oil and Gas Production"

---

"@the9thdude@mstdn.social

Sure would be swell if \#government could spin up some internal
\#Mastodon instances for alerts, weather notifications, public safety
announcements, and public statements"

---

NASA: "In a paper published.. by the *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences*,
[researchers] described how they used a climate model to estimate
the impact of 13 sectors of the economy from 2000 to 2100. They
based their calculations on real-world inventories of emissions collected
by scientists around the world, and they assumed that those emissions
would stay relatively constant in the future.

In their analysis, motor vehicles emerged as the greatest contributor
to atmospheric warming now and in the near term. Cars, buses, and
trucks release pollutants and greenhouse gases that promote warming,
while emitting few aerosols that counteract it"

[[-]](https://www.giss.nasa.gov/research/news/20100218a/)

---

"The Imminent Enshittification of the Internet"

[[-]](https://garymarcus.substack.com/p/the-imminent-enshittification-of)

---

The Guardian: "G20 poured more than $1tn into fossil fuel subsidies
despite Cop26 pledges – report"

---

But JFK's suave image was useful for post 80s shitlibs as they could
hide behind it and push for the right-leaning econ policies helpful
for the rich (like JFK), at the same time you could blame the
government (per [grand bargain](../../2023/06/evil-geniuses.html#bargain))
for his death giving you two birds with one stone. Speechify some shit
about space and cut benefits for the poor. That has been the Democrat
game for decades.

---

Bay of Pigs was a leftover plan from the Eisenhower admin to
JFK. Kennedy modified the plan, and like a true Kennedy f--ked it all
up, made it worse, mismanaged the mission and its aftermath (not to
mention the mistake of pursuing it in the first place). Then he gets
into blood feud with Castro and the stupid son of a bitch gets himself
shot.. The worst US president of modern times.

---

Ike.. He helped big biz then on his way out complained about the
"military-industrial complex" which in a way he ran and helped
flourish.

---

Plokhy, *Nuclear Folly*: "In May 1959 Castro limited the size of
agricultural estates to one thousand acres; the rest were to be
confiscated and redistributed by the government. In July 1960 the
government nationalized all US-owned businesses and properties: since
the revolutionary government needed resources and lacked money, no
compensation was offered... In response President Eisenhower closed
American markets to Cuban sugar, by far the island’s main export. The
United States found itself in a situation akin to the one that the old
imperial powers, Britain and France, had faced in their Asian and
African colonies and dependencies...

American interests were at stake..Luckily, the president’s advisers
had a plan to deal with the crisis. Only a few years earlier, in June
1954, the CIA had executed a successful coup in Guatemala, where land
reform threatened the interests of the United Fruit Company. In March
1960, with agrarian reform in Cuba already underway.. Eisenhower
decided to bring about regime change in Cuba"

---

😂 😂 

The Guardian: "Bernardo Arévalo was elected president of
Guatemala.. Until a few months ago, the idea of an Arévalo presidency
seemed far-fetched. The 64-year-old intellectual, who was born in
Uruguay after his father was forced into exile by 1954’s CIA-backed
coup"

---

For most of its existence USG branches existed to serve the needs of
private interests.. The 'conflict' with Cuba followed the same
pattern.

---

Zinn Education Project: "On June 27, 1954, democratically elected
Guatemalan president Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán was deposed in a
CIA-sponsored coup to protect the profits of the United Fruit
Company. Árbenz was replaced by decades of brutal U.S.-backed regimes"

---

CBS News: "CBS News poll finds Trump's big lead grows, as GOP voters
dismiss indictments"

---

Note the mention of H2

Reuters: "Explainer: Why are countries racing to the moon's heavily
cratered south pole? Scientists are interested in pockets of ancient
ice because they could provide a record of lunar volcanoes. If ice
exists in sufficient quantities, it could be a source of drinking
water for moon exploration and could help cool equipment. It could
also be broken down to produce hydrogen for fuel and oxygen to
breathe, supporting missions to Mars or lunar mining"

---

Fine advance for India

F24: "India becomes first nation to land spacecraft on Moon’s south
pole.. India on Wednesday made history when its Chandrayaan-3 lander
successfully touched down on the Moon's south pole"

---

Informed Comment: "Washington for First Time terms violent Israeli
Squatter-Settlers “Terrorists,” but US Needs to Let [UN Security
Council] Impose Sanctions"

---

"@LadyDragonfly@universeodon.com

Those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it.

Those who prevent you from learning about history fully intend on
repeating it"

---

Michael Rosen: "One of the great achievements of the modern media is
to get people angry about small fiddles and not know about the giant
ones"

---

"@FranckLeroy@mastodon.online

Exactly 14 years ago , Satoshi Nakamoto designed the most pathetic /
inefficient system ever invented by humankind : the blockchain.

Today, it weights 60 000 tons, wastes constantly 10 gigawatts (more
than Belgium or Chile) to process less than 7 transactions per second:
Less than a 33 bps modem from 1990.

This could be a joke if it didn't have such gigantic environmental
impact, wasn't enabling billion dollars ransomware industry and was
not crushing thousands of lives in the process"

---

Leeds Building Society: "[21/02] There are now over 676,000 empty
homes in England – and the numbers continue to rise"

---

Scoop: "Water Wars: Cooling The Data Centres.. Google has proven to be
particularly thirsty in this regard, not to mention secretive in the
amount of water it uses at its data hubs"

---

Instead of pumping sea water into the canal as needed, they used water
collecting somewhere high-up so its movement would be easier I bet.
Suez works on sea water. PC design sounds like a US capitalist design
- exploiting nature, trying to get something for nothing but screwing
up something else in the process, with a fragile design to boot. When
things get funky invade the host country once in a while too, won't
hurt.

The Guardian: "[The Panama Canal] was also one of the greatest
engineering feats in the world, in which the Americans built the canal
over the hills of Panama in a series of great locks, a system that
relies entirely on rain... Around 52 million gallons of fresh water is
lost to the sea each time a ship enters or leaves the canal. That
water is replaced from a vast reservoir built high in the hills, which
in turn is replenished by heavy rainfall – but if the rains dry up so
does the canal"

---

Relies on rain water..?

Yahoo News: "200 Ships Are Stuck at the Panama Canal.. The
50-mile-long canal, as the report notes, relies on rainwater to
replenish it. When it doesn't rain enough, the authorities that
control the canal have to reduce traffic through it to conserve water,
and those that are allowed through have to pay higher fees to do so"

---

H2 Central: "FirstElement Fuel, the World-Leading Provider of Hydrogen
Refueling Solutions, is Awarded $7.7 Million from the California
Energy Commission to Scale up its Manufacturing Capacity"

---

U can survive 31 C wbt or even 35 C granted u stay pat and do not
move. If u move or engage in any kind of activity ur int temp can rise
to 42 C which one cannot dissipate away in humidity and *that* will
kill you

---

"@j3rn

Windows is wild now.  When you install it, it asks permission to
tailor ads to your interests.  Bruh I paid $150 for this OS, the
number of ads I want you to show me is *zero*"

---

There is a bright red spot off northwest Africa too, apparenty that is
the Spanish island Tenerife - on fire.

---

NASA: "[2019/08, relatively] 'low values of fire radiative power in
Angola indicate that these are mostly smaller agricultural fires, as
opposed to large forest fires,' said.. a climate and fire
researcher... Typically, savannas, grasslands, and croplands are
burned in southern Africa at this time of year for various
agricultural reasons, including clearing the land for new crops"

---

There are fires in southern Africa? Is that Angola..? Namibia?

---

Worldwide fires, past 7 days. Canada looks bad

```python
u.modis_fire(clat=0,clon=0,zoom=18)
```

<img width='340' src='modis1.jpg'/> 

---

"drvolts@journa.host

BP's new Energy Outlook models [three scenarios](https://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/news-and-insights/press-releases/bp-energy-outlook-2023-explores-key-trends-and-uncertainties-surrounding-the-energy-transition.html):
New Momentum (BAU); Accelerated (faster change); and Net Zero. In all
three, the oil giant finds that fossil fuel demand peaked in 2019. We
are on the down slope now"

---

AP News: "Children who lived closer to natural gas wells in heavily
drilled #Pennsylvania were more likely to develop a relatively rare
form of #cancer, and nearby residents of all ages had an increased
chance of severe #asthma reactions, say researchers"

---

Informed Comment: "Trouble for Abraham Accords: Saudis Try to
establish E. Jerusalem Consulate for Palestinians, but Extremist
Israeli Gov’t says, 'No!'"

---

Al Monitor: "Iran claims to have produced key engine for supersonic
missile tech"

---

The Guardian: "About 90% of water samples taken over the last 10 years
from the Great Lakes contain microplastic levels that are unsafe for
wildlife, a new peer-reviewed paper from the University of Toronto
finds"

---

Daily Sabah: "Oil-rich Gulf nations bet on 'green' hydrogen.. Oil
producers in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman are
investing heavily in climate-friendly fuels in search of alternative
revenue streams to crude oil and gas... oil-rich Saudi Arabia is
constructing the world's largest green hydrogen plant at NEOM, the
$500 billion futuristic megacity being built on the Red Sea. The 8.4
billion plant will integrate solar and wind energy to produce up to
600 tons of green hydrogen a day by the end of 2026, officials say"

---

Fuel Cell Works: "Researchers Produce Highly Efficient, Low-cost Green
Hydrogen.. The researchers used a hydrogel (a water-based gel) to
attach [an] enzyme to the electrode and were able to produce green
hydrogen using a biocatalyst, and with over 90% efficiency"

---

Math is useful so natural science formulations can proceed without
problems - when mathematics is used to model physical phenomena,
various branches of math allows you to enter realms to simplify stuff;
Ended up with a square root of -1? No problem!  Call it `i`, here is
the book-keeping around that (imaginery numbers), off you go, keep on
deriving, continue... From infinities, into the imaginery, to groups,
to manifolds.. some stuff cancels out, simplifies then back to real
world with a clean formula.

---

Recommending *Collide*, *Man on a Ledge*

---

Remember the scene where the mercenary shows the top honcho (who hired
him) his tatoo/mark possibly from days being a child soldier, says
"I've seen and done things I'm not proud of, but at some point you
realize war is a business.. so when did killing become a business for
you?". 

---

Everyone talks shit about Bay but he *is* the better director.  *The
Island* was good film, had a good story, action, and a message.

---

Nolan is jealous of Michael Bay? He wants to be like him? That's funny

---

CleanTechnica: "[U.S. H2/electrolyzer startup] Verdagy announced that
it nailed down $73 million in Series B funding... Verdagy’s Series B
funding round was led co-led by Shell Ventures, which is no small
potatoes, along with the high flying Singapore-based investment firm
Temasek. For those of you keeping score at home, the round also
gathered up new investors Bidra Innovation Ventures, BlueScope, Galp,
Samsung Venture Investment, Toppan Ventures, Tupras Ventures, Yara
Growth Ventures, and Zeon Ventures"

---

The Guardian: "In May, the World Health Organization issued an
alarming report that declared widely used non-sugar sweeteners like
aspartame are likely ineffective for weight loss, and long term
consumption may increase the risk of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases
and mortality in adults.

[WHO later] issued a third report that seemed to contradict its
previous findings – people could continue consuming the product at
levels determined to be safe decades ago.. That contradiction stems
from beverage industry corruption of the review process by consultants
tied to an alleged Coca-Cola front group"

---

H2 Central: "Brasil – Government Launches Pilot Plant For Renewable
Hydrogen From Ethanol At USP"

---

Dieselgate Scandal [in a different form](https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/tesla-batteries-range/)?
The report reinforces the case that battery-electric tech cannot
survive in any way other than part of a giant scam. See related [post](../../2022/11/battery-electric.html).

---

The Guardian: "At the COP28 we need to rally behind all hydrogen
trending toward near zero emissions by 2030 [says former prime
minister Malcolm Turnbull]"

---

Janes: "Keel laid for second Ada-class corvette for Ukrainian
Navy.. at RMK Marine's shipyard in Tuzla, Istanbul, on 18 August"

---

Reuters: "Ukraine alone decides when conditions right for peace talks-
NATO's Stoltenberg"

---

Firstpost: "Russian, China warships sail close to Japanese islands as
'warning' on eve of US-Japan-South Korea summit"

---

WaPo: "The U.S. intelligence community assesses that Ukraine’s
counteroffensive will fail to reach the key southeastern city of
Melitopol.. a finding that, should it prove correct, would mean Kyiv
won’t fulfill its principal objective of severing Russia’s land bridge
to Crimea in this year’s push"

---
