# Week 51


H2 View: "Verne and LLNL achieve storage record with CcH2 solution.. With a
capacity of 29kg, the two companies have tripled previous records for
cryo-compressed hydrogen storage, achieving its first demonstration,
meeting the energy storage needs of semi-trucks"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "ACWA Power Signs Agreement To Develop Green Hydrogen
Project In Egypt Worth More Than $4 Billion"

---

"@fuck_cars_bot@botsin.space

'UK petition to restrict parking on the pavement'"

[[-]](https://files.botsin.space/media_attachments/files/111/606/116/171/429/416/original/d672425b5b5c0f62.png)

---

"@Victor@spore.social

California is set to adopt regulations that will allow for #sewage to
be extensively treated, transformed into pure drinking #water and
delivered directly to people’s taps"

---

Woke is a side-effect of [the grand bargain](../../2023/06/evil-geniuses.html).
Cultural left and economic right made a deal to take economic issues
off the table, label government as evil and give each other permission
to exercise their respective "freedoms". One smokes weed, the other
buys guns.. be free, be free.. Being extreme Woke is one of the few
outlets the cultural left has for exercising its political
activism. That's why they double down on it when things go awry,
because they've already taken much off the table. Over time they've
gone blind, they don't even notice the superstructure anymore. 
This is their Matrix.  Anti-government, pro-rich with a few "freedoms"
sprinkled in to divert attention, all egged on by moneyed interests of
course because it benefits them.

---

Same with this woke business.. Woke is not something low income folk
care about, at best it is a non-issue, at worst off-putting. If ur
party keeps talking abt such topics, they will judge you a cosseted
cuck and will not vote for you.

---

Immigration issue should not exclusively belong to the right
wing. Cheap, undocumented labor can also hurt native labor, their
negotiating power.

---

The Guardian: "Macron: Fighting illegal immigration is not just a
subject just for the [political] right. If you live in a working-class
area affected by this you are for this law"

---

BBC: "The French parliament has passed legislation toughening France's
immigration policy"

---

Janes: "China-Russia joint air patrol improves air-sea
co-ordination.. Chinese and Russian military forces have conducted
their second joint strategic air patrol of 2023 in an effort to
improve their air and naval force co-operation"

---

Politico: "Advocacy organizations supporting Israel.. have spent
roughly 100 times more on advertising via Meta’s social media
platforms in the last month compared to groups aligned with
Palestinians and Arabs, according to an analysis.. The combined
spending of more than $2 million on Facebook and Instagram.. shows how
pro-Israel groups are trying to shape public opinion among Americans,
especially younger generations who are increasingly skeptical of
Israel"

---

"advisorybriefs@mas.to

Israel's bombing campaign has exceeded the force of the bombing of Hiroshima"

[[-]](https://media.mas.to/masto-public/media_attachments/files/111/348/123/094/454/805/original/73a4a302f86138e8.png)

---

"@clive@saturation.social

Man, the 'dead internet' is arriving

@bhawthorne describes his recent experience searching for basic info
online -- he looked for the temperature to roast hazelnuts, and got
nothing but stochastic-parrot garbage...

He concludes:

'I think it may be time to download an archive copy of the 2022
Wikipedia before we lose all of our reference material. It was nice
having all the world’s knowledge at my fingertips for a couple of
decades, but that time seems to be past'"

---

The beginning of the winter was about NNs too in a way; not AI in
general, some grandiose claims were made, and they disappointed.

---

I'd say LeCun was more instrumental in bringing back NNs in deep net
form, he is also more active in its further development today than the
other two.

---

Howard is the creator of the ULMFiT on which all modern language
models are based. LeCun is "the other godfather of AI" if you believe
Hinton is the godfather of AI, which he is not but according to
corporate media it appears he is. Hinton, LeCun and Bengio are
basically the three researchers who brought neural net techniques back
to weak AI. There was an "AI winter" previously they helped end it.

"Who are LeCun and Howard per previous AI post?"

---

People in SV have become drug addicts... Every new bubble, false
promise tech is like a new drug to them.. but it all gets used up,
then the junkies need a new fix.

---

"@marcan@treehouse.systems

Being very generous, LLMs like GPT-3 are trained on over 1000 times
the amount of words a human could possibly perceive until age 18,
assuming they spent every waking minute of their life listening to
speech. GPT-4 probably used more.

No, that's not how humans work, nor how intelligence works. You are
not creating intelligence, you are just throwing a big SSD at the
problem (and a fancy fuzzy compression algorithm). If you need 1000x
more data to come up with output similar to a human, that means your
model is 1000x worse at generalizing and actual intelligence than a
human (and it's worse, because we know LLMs fail catastrophically when
given tests that require actual intelligence, not just appearing
knowledgeable). At that point you are so far off it is silly to assume
that throwing more compute at the problem in the future will bridge
that gap, with the same approach"

---

Expecting a slam dunk there? They've gone against maga before
for certain cases. We'll see. 

---

That sounds like judic. overreach to me. This will surely end up
at scotus.

Reuters: "Trump barred from Colorado ballot for role in attack on US Capitol"

---

The complex can exploit all kinds of politician. If you are in the
drama of "hesitant superpower" - they can work with that, there will
still be bombing, base building, the drama of "will he, won't he" is
still useful.. Statemanly stuff, good TV. If an admin wants to go big,
such as W, you do a country or two, but the handlers will stop you
short of a third. AFG, IRQ fine, not Iran. If there was an empire,
trying to create order, you'd "do" Iran. But no. Now Iran *has* to be
involved in Iraq (Shite majority Sunni minority) more chaos / mayhem
ensues. But that's great business - more money for troop deployments,
bombs, housing.  There is an increased awareness of danger, always
beneficial, "see you need our products".

---

"@AnarchoDoggo@kolektiva.social

The US: we definitely don't want this to turn into a wider regional
conflict

Houthi rebels: \*show some concrete solidarity with Palestinians being
genocided\*

The US: Okay we will now mobilize the the militaries of the global
north to rain down war upon you"

---

Surely politicians favored by donors think they are following a well
crafted strategery, but the pols who get the money always seem to
follow a certain type of strategery that makes the contractors the
most amount of money. Order is not good, regularly occuring death and
mayhem is preferred. You can't just destroy once, you do it (or allow
it to happen) multiple times. It needs to be repeat business. Raytheon
destroys, Bechtel builds. Then Raytheon destroys again, and Bechtel
rebuilds.. This is a sweet, sweet deal if you can get it. And the
private complex has it.

---

There is no empire. There is no deep state. There is bunch of
money-grubbing muppets looking for their next payday. That's
what's going on here.

---

Hossein-Zadeh: "[2006] The American Enterprise Institute (AEI), an
influential Washington think tank and a major lobbying force for the
military - industrial - Likud alliance, can boast of being the
metaphorical alma mater of a number of powerful members of the Bush
administration. For example, Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife
Lynne Cheney, State Department arms control official John Bolton, and
former chair of the Defense Policy Board Richard Perle all have had
long-standing ties with the institute. The institute played a key role
in promoting Ahmed Chalabi’s group of Iraqi exiles, the Iraqi National
Congress (INC), as a major Iraqi opposition force 'that would be
welcomed by the Iraqi people as an alternative to the regime of Saddam
Hussein' once the United States overthrew that regime. From 1998 on,
when there was U.S. government money openly available to support the
Iraqi opposition to Saddam Hussein due to the AEI-backed Iraqi
Liberation Act, Chalabi’s INC grabbed the bulk of the funding. In
return, the INC, working closely with the AEI, played an important
role in the justification of the invasion of Iraq. It served, for
example, as a major source of (largely fabricated) intelligence for
the civilian militarists of the Pentagon whenever they found the
intelligence gathered by the CIA and the State Department at odds with
their plans of invading Iraq.

Another example of the interlocking network of neoconservative forces
in the Bush administration and the militaristic think tanks that are
dedicated to the advancement of the military - industrial - Likud
agenda is reflected in the affiliation of a number of influential
members of the administration with the Jewish Institute for National
Security Affair (JINSA). JINSA 'is on record in its support of the
Israeli occupation of the West Bank and against the Oslo Accord'... In
its fervent support for the hard-line, pro-settlement,
anti-Palestinian Likud-style policies in Israel, JINSA has essentially
recommended that ‘regime change’ in Iraq should be 'just the beginning
of a cascade of toppling dominoes in the Middle East.'  JINSA has
influential friends either as liaisons with or members of the Bush
administration. For example, Assistant Secretary of Defense Douglas
Feith is a former JINSA advisor. General Jay Garner, the initial head
of the U.S. occupation authority in Iraq, is also a former JINSA
advisory board member. JINSA advisor Michael Ladeen, who also
unofficially advises the Bush administration on Middle Eastern issues,
has occasionally talked about the coming era of 'total war,'
indicating that the Bush administration should expand its policy of
'regime change' in Iraq to other countries in the region such as Iran,
Syria, and Saudi Arabia. In keeping with its role as a cheerleader
for U.S. intervention in the Middle East, JINSA chose to honor Deputy
Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz... to receive the 2002 edition
of its Henry M. ‘Scoop’ Jackson public service award. The corporate
sponsor of the affair was Northrop Grumman, a company that Wolfowitz
worked for as a paid consultant prior to joining Rumsfeld’s
Pentagon...

A closer look at the professional records of the neoconservative
players in the Bush administration indicates that '32 major
administration appointees... are former executives with, consultants
for, or significant shareholders of top defense contractors.' For
example, James Roche, former Air Force secretary who took over the
Army, is a former president of Northrop Grumman; his assistant
secretary Nelson Gibbs is another Northrop alumnus. An undersecretary
at the Air Force, Peter Teets, was chief operating officer at Lockheed
while Michael Wynne, a Defence Department undersecretary, was a former
senior vice president at General Dynamics. Defence Secretary Donald
Rumsfeld himself is an ex-director of a General Dynamics subsidiary,
and Paul Wolfowitz, deputy defence secretary, acted as a paid
consultant to Northrop Grumman. Today, point out Hartung and
Ciarrocca, the armaments lobby 'is exerting more influence over
policymaking than at any time since President Dwight D. Eisenhower
first warned of the dangers of the military-industrial complex over 40
years ago'"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Fortescue Awarded €200 Million In European Union
Funding For Norway Green Hydrogen And Ammonia Project"

---

That program would have to be funded of course with tax revenues which
likely is high enough for FN. But they have a wealth distr problem too,
not as bad as US, but getting worse. Assets hogged by top 10% will trigger
housing crisis.

"@BrentToderian@mastodon.online

'In Finland, the number of homeless people has fallen sharply. Those
affected receive a small apartment & counselling with no
preconditions. 4 out of 5 people affected make their way back into a
stable life'"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Greenh Electrolysis Entered Into A Contract To Build
A Hydrogen Production And Refueling Station To Power India’s First
Hydrogen Train"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/111/567/868/192/540/700/small/ae68797a35ef909d.png'/> 

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Citybus Launches Hong Kong’s First Hydrogen Double-Deck Bus And
Refueling Station"

---

Said It Like Ike \#TheComplex

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1Jofhu8Qz52OllhEofNcOb9yiAq1NaBiM)

---

Semler: "Top Five Weapons Companies Set to Get $140 Billion From
Pentagon Next Year.. A Sludge analysis estimates that more than half
of the fiscal year 2024 Pentagon budget will go to private
contractors, with the five largest companies raking in one-sixth of
all military spending"

---

\#Dog

[[-]](https://assets.chaos.social/media_attachments/files/111/585/366/165/397/101/small/b66c60e82fc6f5b5.png)

---

\#Queensland \#Australia \#Flood

[[-]](https://sfo3.digitaloceanspaces.com/cdn.mastodon.energy/media_attachments/files/111/597/532/811/088/640/small/e0ff5ca6f2c57435.jpg)

---

The Battle For The West Bank \#F24

[[-]](https://youtu.be/nNZXl2dbR9Y?t=454)

---

F24: "French top diplomat calls for 'immediate and durable' Gaza truce"

---

"@joelle@social.joelle.us

If you grew up in the 1980s, you probably remember hearing about how
people in the Soviet Union couldn't buy necessities because of the
failures of central planning. It was used as proof capitalism was
superior to communism.

Welcome to the 2023 USA, where one drug company running behind central
production targets causes a shortage for everyone. Or where one food
plant having problems causes a baby formula shortage. The problem is a
lack of slack in the system--but slack is unprofitable"

---

Hierarchy exists in high-risk domains for a reason. The
"Maverick" stuff is for movies.

---

Bad news for Ukranians but Russian army without the Wagner chief seems
to be fighting better than with him around. Guy was an "enterpreneur"
right, always marketing himself meaning unnecessarily talking out of
his ass that also broke discipline. Such acts do not work in high-risk
occupations like war. The free-market is fine for selling shoelaces
or candy and shit, but for anything more serious, the government has
to be involved. 

---

Peggy Lee - Ridin' High

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KulxVMecSi8)

---

"First Hydrogen fleet at the [Siemens] Wildenrath test center

- All hydrogen-powered Mireo Plus H trains have arrived at the
Wildenrath test center

- Siemens Mobility delivers seven two-car trains powered by fuel cells
for the Heidekrautbahn network operated by Niederbarnimer Eisenbahn
(NEB)

- Siemens Mobility’s first order for a train fleet based on hydrogen
technology – first hydrogen-powered train fleet for Berlin-Brandenburg

- Hydrogen fleet to be delivered in the fall of 2024. Trains are to
operate on the Heidekrautbahn network (RB27) beginning in December
2024"

---

The powers that be can try to criminalize it, but cannot criminalize
people simply *not* buying certain products.

---

BDS will work. Thats why they are scared of it.

---

Cannot deny what Houthis are doing is helpful for the Palestinian
cause.. they are hitting the muckers where it hurts, their money and
bidness. If the boycots expand as well together they can move the
dial.

F24: "World’s largest shipping firm Maersk suspends Red Sea traffic
after Houthi attacks.. A ballistic missile fired by Yemen's Houthi
rebels slammed into a cargo ship Friday in the Red Sea near the
strategic Bab el-Mandeb Strait, following another attack only hours
earlier that struck a separate vessel, authorities said"

---

