# Week 40


"@halcy@icosahedron.website

.. it's genuinely hilarious that literally all of the companies who
claim to need all your data so they can hyperpersonalize ads for you
that they say will then somehow work better than normal,
don't-need-to-know-the-name-of-your-firstborn-child ads are, very
obviously, utterly shit at actually personalizing anything based on
data"

---

"@primonatura@mstdn.social

'Wasted food – if it were a country – would be the third largest
source of greenhouse gas emissions in the world, according to the UN’s
Food and Agriculture Organization'"

---

CNN: "Biden cancels another $9 billion in student loan debt days after
payments restart"

---

\#Connover \#Hustle

[[-]](https://youtu.be/mcgC-kuPEuo?t=28)

---

Vertical Farm Daily: "Why the growth cycle of rice can be [cut] in
half.. Can rice grow normally in a closed environment without sunlight
and soil? The Institute of Urban Agriculture of the Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences and a team led by Qian Qian, an academic from
the Chinese Academy of Sciences and deputy director of the China
National Rice Research Institute, found the answer.

After planting rice and growing it in a closed environment for 63
days, the rice produced full branches, which is more than half the
time it takes to grow rice in an open-field environment. "This is a
subversive breakthrough in the history of rice cultivation," Qian Qian
said"

---

"@rrix@notes.whatthefuck.computer

My friends at Consumer Reports launched Permission Slip today for iOS
and Android. You sign up, verify your identity, and they’ll submit
data opt out and deletion orders to data brokers and consumer
companies on your behalf"

[[-]](https://www.permissionslipcr.com/)

---

Informed Comment: "Israel’s Strategic Weaponization of Water Against
Palestine is a War Crime.. The universal human right to water,
ensuring “sufficient safe, acceptable, physically accessible and
affordable water for personal and domestic uses” is a principle upheld
by international conventions. However, in the Occupied West Bank, this
right is systematically violated through Israel’s targeted assaults on
civilian water infrastructure"

---

"5G: A symptom of the Growth Death Cult.. 5G [is] a solution that is
looking for.. a problem. And the problem is not AR, VR. The problem is
not downloading a Netflix video in 5 seconds or 50 seconds. Because we
cannot watch [that].. 5G exceeds our biological capabilities to read,
to watch, listen"

[[-]](https://www.thisishcd.com//episode/manuel-vexler-5g-a-symptom-of-the-growth-death-cult)

---

Obviously TC did other roles too, it's not fair to pigeonhole him, and
I do like the action BTW, the general storytelling.. I'm just saying..
there are some "messages", at least the stain of the spirit of the
times. "One for them and one for me".. who is them and who is me..?

---

*The Color of Money* is about hustling, money, so kinda repulsive from
get-go - we'll pass. *Cocktail* shows a Cruise telling off a teacher
in academia that he "hides here 'cause he can't hack it in the real
world", goes on to start his own bidness (do that viewers don't be
little bureucrats), on the way he wonders about drink umbrellas, shoe
laces, little wrappers "someone makes those, rips off 10 billion of
them a year and he is a millionaire". He gets his own bar with twins
on the way and he becomes happy with big H - he flashes the big 80s
Cruise smile, as viewers we feel good too, inspired, we think if we
can grind like that, aim for money, we too can be happy, just like the
guy who does shoe laces, or a character who now owns a bar.

In *Born on the Fourth of July* he is a disabled veteran, this time
directly, physically hurt by government. Government did that to him,
they almost killed him, look at the man.. He cries all the time
through a Cruise eager to show his acting ability, trying to dispel
the notion that he is a dumb jock type who cannot act. Director is of
course Oliver Stone, never one to shy away from spreading
anti-government propaganda who can even "by mistake" manage to make
Wall Street greed look cool. The movie works, critics love it, they
shower it with praise and Academy Awards.

*Mission Impossible* series is mostly about bad bad governments, there
are good parts, some good people in it, but mostly bad. Don't be that,
be Maverick of the spy world. What is the latest one about? There is
apparently an "AI".. ? I'm sure that too is related to a bad
government action somehow. Be afraid of that and do entrepreneurish
things, be an outside disruptor.

---

In *Top Gun* he plays military, institution under government, but
notice the role he plays is *Maverick*, "a rebel", portrayed as an
intrepid disruptor, hey the man is almost like a start-up owner, a
non-government entity inside government! Isn't that great! He has
enterpreneurial spirit, of course always "too constrained by
bureucracy" who never seem to see the true value in him, but he
achives things, he gets their approval sometimes. We should be glad
such entreprenurial spirit exists, should aim to be like him.

---

Tom Cruise - was he involved in anti-goverment propaganda of vis-a-vis
corporate Holywood? Some of his movies are somewhat guilty in that
regard.. Ok.. Imma hit TC now.

---

"@protonmail@mastodon.social

A new low, even for \#Google. Giving Google permission to share
information about you with third-party websites is being falsely
advertised as an "ad privacy feature". This is privacy washing at its
most extreme. But it gets even worse.

There is a dark pattern on the second screenshot. It isn't just
informing you about the fake privacy features. Clicking on "Got it"
actually turns on these features that allow Google to use your recent
browsing history for ads on third-party websites:"

[[-]](https://mastodon.social/@protonmail/111165171600485248)

---

Sounds Pop - Drugpop \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LzP1_-FZQ78)

---

Haaretz: "'Pope Is Furious' Over anti-Christian Spitting Incidents,
Catholic Church Representative Says.. Ahead of a Jerusalem parade on
Wednesday in which a large evangelical delegation is slated to march,
Christian figures have condemned incidents in which Jewish youths in
Jerusalem spat at Christian pilgrims"

---

"@scottsantens@hachyderm.io

Preliminary results from the Denver Basic Income Project that's
providing cash to hundreds of unhoused people for one year, using the
first 6 months of data:

- NO ONE receiving $1,000/mo still sleeping outside
- Full-time employment increased
- Fewer visits to the ER
- Fewer nights spent in jail
- Reduced use of social and public services"

---

"[P]latinum’s not the only metal they can use for electrolysis,
so.. [University of Texas] scientists have been looking for a cheaper
alternative, like nickel. For nickel to work, however, it has to be
transformed. That’s a difficult process. And the structure of the
prickly pear cactus helped them figure it out. Whereas previous
designs had used one kind of nickel, this one contains two kinds of
nickel fused together in the shape of the cactus leaf and fruit. The
leaf is made of nickel phosphide, and the fruit is made of nickel
sulfide.

This design allowed for more surface area, which was a boon for the
lab. “We could enhance electron mobility with that prickly pear cactus
structure,” [researcher] explained. And it worked. More electron
mobility meant more electrochemical reactions, which in turn created
more hydrogen"

---

Microgrid Media: "Hydrogen bicycles are becoming a reality. These
unique bikes feature a distinct “water bottle” on their frames, filled
with liquid hydrogen that can be produced right at home. Several
companies are at the forefront of developing small-scale home systems
for hydrogen production and storage, making it accessible and safe for
personal use. These systems are compact, not much larger than a
standard trolley bag, and promise to revolutionize personal
transportation.

<img width='340' src='https://img1.bike-x.de/ub-linde-wasserstoff-e-bike-2016-2-jpg--169FullWidth-68bf2271-1484900.jpg'/> 

One such innovator is China’s Youon, which offers a portable container
weighing 18 kg, housing a 40-liter tank that uses electrolysis to
produce liquid hydrogen. Powered by solar energy, this system can be
seamlessly integrated with city bikes, making it a valuable addition
to bike-sharing services in Southeast Asian metropolises. In just 10
seconds, the tank can be refilled, allowing the bike to reach speeds
of up to 23 km/h and providing a range of 50-60 km. With competitive
pricing and virtually no charging costs, these bikes are set to
significantly impact the market.

Germany’s Linde, an industrial automation company, has developed a
similar bicycle equipped with an electrolysis system. Instead of
relying on solar power, this system can be found in public roadside
towers and utilizes wind or biogas energy sources. Impressively, just
34 grams of hydrogen can power the bike for up to 100 km, offering a
sustainable and efficient mode of transportation.

In France, Alpha Neo has recently entered production with
its aesthetically pleasing and functional hydrogen-powered
bike... 

Toyota, known for its commitment to hydrogen technology, has partnered
with Woven Planet Holdings to develop a portable hydrogen cartridge
measuring just 40 cm x 18 cm. Weighing a mere 5 kg, this mini-bottle
can be easily transported and used on scooters and other small
electrical devices. It promises to extend hydrogen’s reach to remote
and challenging locations, particularly during emergencies"

---

ABC News AU: "Authorities said almost 150 fires in [AU state] New
South Wales had been started by lithium ion batteries so far this
year"

---

The going seems slow

```python
geo = [['Main'],['Andriivka','Klischchiivka'],['Bilohorivka','Verkhnokamianske'],
       ['Opytne'],['Bakhmut','Yahidne','Berkhivka'],['Novomykhailivka','Stepne','Marinka'],
       ['Synkivka','Kupiansk','Lyman Pershyi'],['Urozhaine','Staromaiorske'],['Robotyne','Novoprokpivka']]
       
u.sm_plot_ukr4('ukrdata/fl-1004.csv','ukrdata/fl-0916.csv',geo,3,3,zoom=0.03,fsize=(10,10),)
```

<img width='340' src='https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1r-D4aR2IoZx2UCYbP2WCjw93Wk2P60vA'/> 

---

The Montreal Gazette: "The National Assembly unanimously adopted [a
bill] on Tuesday aimed at protecting consumers against planned
obsolescence. As soon as the legislation is signed into law, it will
be prohibited in Quebec to sell goods whose normal operating life has
been deliberately limited"

---

Renewables Now: "Everfuel, Hy24 close 1-GW Baltic green hydrogen JV deal"

----

A sparse row is just a dictionary. If you have value for column 30 and
40, you have `{30: 0.1, 40: 0.2}`, that's it.

Dot product is `sum(row1[key]*row2.get(int(key), 0) for key in row1)`.
Then divide by norms.

---

Row by row disk based cosine similarity calc is faster than similar
scipy calc which excl works in memory. Minibatch processing rocks.

---

702: "It's been reported that e-waste in South Africa is increasing at
a rapid pace, growing three times the rate of solid municipal
waste. These include products that are 'white goods' such as
refrigerators, washing machines, and microwaves and 'brown goods' such
as televisions, radios, computers and cell phones."

---

More battery-electric problems.. the bus was BEV, after crash it
caught fire, whoever remained alive (likely most) burned in the
fire.. The people who could have been saved, died because of
batteries. The firefighter says the state of the remains are "hard to
describe", meaning they burned badly. We wrote about this issue
[here](../../2022/11/battery-electric.html#safety).

AP News: "Italy bus crash: 21 dead, including tourists, near
Venice.. At least 21 people were killed and 18 injured in a.. bus
crash"

---

News.com.au: "The Moment a Lithium Battery Explodes in a Sydney
Hostel.. CCTV footage has captured the incredible moment a lithium-ion
e-bike battery exploded, causing a fire to rip through a hostel in
Sydney's Kings Cross district"

[[-]](https://www.news.com.au/best-of/the-moment-a-lithium-battery-explodes-in-a-sydney-hostel/video/20690a102dcc65afcb522f60e405ab27)

---

\#Sydney \#Battery \#Hazard

<img width='340' src='lion3.jpg'/> 

---

.. and the British corporate media destroyed him. 

Corbyn: "[2019, O]ur tax plans will affect the richest 5% of our
society. We will be chasing down tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax
havens"

---

Mike Ness - Big Iron \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/P9wp3CE81yo)

---

"@randfish@mastodon.social

Mastodon is literally the only social network that doesn't penalize links"

---

\#Links \#SocMed

[[-]](https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/174/053/301/332/694/original/2a86b99b21a7295a.png)

---

Please do it. DJT sitting behind Biden during the SOTU speech.. I'd
pay to see that.


The Independent: "Kevin McCarthy has been ousted as House
speaker. Could Trump replace him?..  The House of Representatives can
elect anyone to be speaker, regardless if that person is a member of
the chamber or not. While the Constitution doesn’t state that the
speaker has to be a member of the House, a non-member has never been
elected to the role"

---

Massive bills can be tough to handle for legislators, esp for ones who
are left out of the horse trading. They get served the mega bill, that
has something for everyone, usually can't say no due to party
loyalty.

I don't support line item veto, but smaller bills can be better.

"The dissenting 8" has some good ideas on procedural stuff. Can they
be implemented? What will the next SoH do?

---

Reagan used to complain about mega bills, and wanted to have a
line-item veto. That would make Prez more part of the legislation IMO,
with exec taking out parts of bills he doesn't like. Issues come
together in bills as part of the horse trading - "give me this I'll
give you that" which is partly why they get bigger and bigger.

---

If he did the shutdown he'd have survived; can't be "bi", all hugs and
smiles with Dems while the big T is getting arrows from the judicial
system.. That aspect surely played a part.

---

McCarthy out - dam.

---

"@esvrld@octodon.social

[D]eep theoretical issues aside, anything a large language model
produces will be banal because it will approach the statistical mean
of its corpus (large, also banal).. infinite monkeys on infinite
typewriters won't produce shakespeare because you can have an infinite
number of the same thing. and for similar reasons no matter how much
boring information you feed boring-o-bot 3000 it will not create
interesting information of it (again laying aside the fact that the
models don't actually process information, only data)"

---

"@mos_8502@oldbytes.space

Modern design language in computer UI pisses me off.

We have super-high-resolution displays, and we're being stuck with
fucking line art and flat colours. Everything is gravitating towards
the same indecipherable mess, because at some point some anonymous art
school dropout conned people into thinking that buttons shouldn't look
like fucking buttons, and icons shouldn't look like what they
represent.

Call me an old-fashioned, stick-in-the-mud, retrograde curmudgeon, but
I maintain that Leopard was the peak of Mac OS X's usability.

The old vs. new Instagram app icons are a [perfect example](https://assets.oldbytes.space/assets.oldbytes.space/media_attachments/files/111/155/728/848/125/244/small/d92a4dcfca54540c.png)
of this. On the left, it clearly has something to do with cameras. The
right just looks like a line drawing of a prolapsed anus"

---

Jon Oliver: “And while I’m happy that they eventually got a fair deal
and immensely proud of what our union accomplished, I’m also furious
that it took the studios 148 days to achieve a deal that they could
have offered on day fucking one.”

---

"@WWBugs@mstdn.social

Estimated timeline for saltwater intrusion into the New Orleans metro
area" via Axios

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/171/856/323/841/778/small/f8e9d3fa3dcc65b3.png)

---

Perfect time to crack the whip on these microblogging platforms and
force them to implement Mastodon's ActivityPub protocol so they dont
become seperate islands (imagine Yahoo Mail only being able to email
Yahoo Mail). Free market on its own will find the dumbest solution and
stick to it.

---

Will Threads and Twitter become the Google Plus of the new era?

---

People offering Bluesky invites which get snapped up some even sell
them on e-Bay and find buyers.. Is there a buzz around BS now?

---

Tuber always asks how I think about his videos - how considerate of him

---

The Markup: "Predictive Policing Software Terrible At Predicting
Crimes.. A software company sold a New Jersey police department an
algorithm that was right less than 1% of the time"

---

"@thomasfuchs@hachyderm.io

The level of enshittification of the Internet from LLMs is truly spectacular.

Search for anything (in my case my ice maker doesn’t produce ice
correctly) is now an exercise in futility.

Wonder if we can ever dig ourselves out of this level of shit.

Thanks, tech bros. Really super awesome stuff"

---

"@HeavenlyPossum@kolektiva.social

Here’s what a firm does when it collects revenue: it invests that
revenue in capturing more revenue.

Sometimes this might mean 'more production,' by which most people mean
'NEW production,' and that’s what orthodox economics imagines
capitalists do. We have all this stuff today, you see, because people
have endless hedonic wants, so we constantly invest our surplus into
creating the tools to make ever more stuff.

But capitalists only *sometimes* invest in new production — [they usually..]

- buy patents to stop competitors from making and selling things

- lobbying the state for subsidies for themselves and regulatory obstacles for their competitors

- undercutting prices to drive their competitors out of business

- buying their competitors

Etc. Note that none of these expand production or create new
production. All of these are either about *reducing their competitors’
income* and hopefully consolidating control over their capital
instead"

---

Kennard: "In 2000 the water system.. of the third largest city in
Bolivia was privatized, handed over to the American corporation
Bechtel who jacked up prices massively made it impossible for most
people to afford water, they even made collecting rain water illegal
[which caused huge protests]"


---

Silent Coup \#Hedges \#Kennard

[[-]](https://youtu.be/1xRrk-cYU-E?t=33)

---

"[2016] Coca-Cola was accused of hiring hitmen from a prominent
[Columbian] paramilitary group between 1990 and 2002 to kill at least
10 trade union leaders"

---

Some areas in Paki southeast does look bad for 7m rise, but Pakis have
a big land, people can move around?

Bangladesh on the other hand...

[[-]](searise7.jpg)

---

Racer: "Why Extreme E plans to swap its E for an H.. Extreme E is
still a fresh addition to the world of motorsport, but with its stock
still on the rise, it’s about to press the reset button.

<img width='340' src='https://racer.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/85/2023/09/1019522353-LAT-20230311-XP2301_053248XE_SAUDI23_CL_1103-9.jpg?w=1000&h=600&crop=1'/> 

Last month Extreme E announced that it had signed a non-binding [MoU]
with the FIA to develop the first hydrogen-powered motorsport series,
under which it could become an official FIA world championship by 2026"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

Santa Cruz METRO approves historic purchase of hydrogen fueled buses"

---

H2 Central: "Air Liquide and Trillium to Collaborate on Development of
Heavy-duty Hydrogen Fueling Market in The United States"

---

"@helpmeskeletor@mastodon.social

‘Henry Ford invented the 40 hour work week’ is a very strange way to
say ‘Henry Ford claimed credit for changes he was forced to adopt
after a hard fought campaign by the union members he despised'"

---

"LadyDragonfly@universeodon.com

People with beards are just people without beards, but with beards"

---

\#Nikola

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/F7NJrnVXkAAS2_J?format=png&name=small)

---

"Wuzzy@cyberplace.social

\#Google is trying again to convince you, YES YOU, to contribute for
free to Google Maps. Please don't. It is 100% #proprietary, Google has
full control over the data you added and people can only access Google
Maps over proprietary channels where Google dictates the rules. This
gives them too much power.

Contribute to #OpenStreetMap instead, it's a project by the community,
for the community"

---

"@mspro@social.tchncs.de

'Houses really are just Boomer NFTs'"

---

@mspro@social.tchncs.de

<img width='340' src='https://f2.tchncs.de/media_attachments/files/111/155/330/056/091/166/small/b6a6a4f543aaf474.jpeg'/> 

---

Firstpost: "Chinese tech giant Xiaomi plans massive production units
in India, with local manufacturer Padget"

---

"@MagnetoMancer@bostonsocial.online

Following a recent share about hydrogen powered buses; this is a
quickie refresher essay on hydrogen gas: The preferable way to produce
\#hydrogen is electrolysis using electricity acquired from Nature's
green infinitely renewable clean resources. Electrolysis does not
destroy water; but separates it into its two elements Hydrogen and
Oxygen which are later recombined into purified water again during
'combustion' or fuel-cell exchange outputting much of the original
electrolysis electricity. The same water is split and recombined
forever. This is the infinite cycle that sets hydrogen up above all
other fuels"

---

H2 Central: "Working with Loughborough University in the UK and the
German Aerospace Centre Deutsches Zentrum für Luft-und Raumfahrt
(DLR), Rolls-Royce has proven a critical engine technology that marks
another significant step in the journey to enabling hydrogen as an
aviation fuel. Tests on a full annular combustor of a Pearl 700 engine
at DLR in Cologne running on 100% hydrogen have proven the fuel can be
combusted at conditions that represent maximum take-off thrust"

---

US PIRG: "Mastercard knows where people shop, how much they spend, and
on what days - and it sells that information online"

---

I can do this all day

---

US has "gone from barbarism to decadence without bothering to create a
civilization in between" -- from the movie *A Good Woman*.

---

You don't own your country, private interests do, you are just living in it

---

But something similar could be said on America .. that it is not a
country, but a thin veil for its corporations.

---

That is funny.. he was a funny man

John McCain: "Russia is a 'gas station masquerading as a country'"

---

Guilliani cameo on Seinfeld, S5E07, the non-fat yoghurt episode

via @mspro@social.tchncs.de

---

Storing H2 is more [efficient and cheaper](../../2022/02/h2-underground.html)
than any alternative method, at scale. Nuke + H2 marriage makes perfect
sense. 

Reuters: "[N]uclear reactors tend to operate full-time because
shutting them is expensive and hard on the plants. Some have stored
the excess cheap power by [pumped hydro, which] could be replaced by
using the cheap nuclear power to run electrolyzers, machines that
separate hydrogen from water"

---

McCarthy can go either way on Ukraine.. so people who were adamantly
against on this issue were right not to trust him. What did Tucker say
once "he puts on a Ukrainian lapel pin and goes to lunch with [some
neocon]"? But from SoH perspective the majority of Senate Reps are pro
UA, needs to deal with that, maybe with some House Dems added on top
can get something all cons want.

---

STB did not have anything for the border, nor Ukraine.. McCarthy now
says to Dems give me border security I can give you money on Ukraine..

---

CNBC: "Government shutdown updates: Biden signs 45-day funding bill to
keep government open.. The 71-page short-term bill, crafted by House
Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., allocates disaster relief funds, but
does not include new financial assistance for Ukraine's ongoing war
with Russia"

---

Firstpost: "Pro-Russian ex-PM Fico wins Slovak election"

---

F24: "Pro-China candidate Mohamed Muizzu wins Maldives presidency"

---

Truck News: "Hydrogen-powered Daimler truck passes 1,000 km on single
fill"

<img width='340' src='https://a.mindlycdn.com/cache/preview_cards/images/009/765/466/original/08b1c18f4b529326.jpg'/> 

---

FuelCellsWorks: "AMSL Aero, An Australian Portfolio Company Of IP Group Plc,
Successfully Conducts Its First Test Flight Of A Hydrogen-Powered Air
Taxi"

---

In the lands they migrated to later, such as the US, they were
assimilated just like Irish, Polish, Africans had been and became
natives after one generation. It is all about the mainstream culture -
heritage means nothing.

---

Palestinian leader Abbas' claims were not baseless. Isaac Asimov wrote
in his biography *It's Been a Good Life* he himself might not be
connected to ancient Israel at all. East European Jews are mostly from
today's southern Russia, and they took up Judaism as the state
religion "[probably] to keep from falling under the influence of
either the Byzantine Christians or the Arab Moslems, who were busily
engaged in the first part of their centuries-long duel". Theirs was a
tactical conversion, had no relation to the Middle East, therefore
their descendants' Semitic connection would be in question. People who
arrived into modern Israel have grandiose claims that aren't
correct. Their grandfathers [did not](../../2020/06/10-myths-israel.html#samejew)
"leave the ancient lands" so their descendants are not "coming back" to
anything..  They are pretenders, squatters in a land that was never theirs.

---

Do you prefer your shelves empty, or under lock and key (the latter
obviously being sign of inequality). Could there be a system where
shelves are somewhat full, and people are not looting?

---

Hahah \#Cuba \#America

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/154/309/216/442/931/original/e407c412c097121a.jpg)

---

I ain't gettin quelled mfker.. We speaka here no matter what

---

There were claims back in 2022 MM was mad at the admin on the Ukraine policy and [leaked](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/11/10/us/politics/biden-ukraine-russia-diplomacy.html)
to NYT about his own position.. That could be true - but the admin
itself could have told Milley to leak so that outside observers would
know gov is hearing all viewpoints, in a way to quell fears they
weren't completely gung-ho. 

WSJ: "Gen. Mark Milley to step aside as new Joint Chiefs chair takes command"

---

Tadella Nutella - he doesn't fool around

WION: "Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella set to testify against Google in
antitrust trial"

---

You see who calls the shots in US, business wants cheap workers they
get cheap workers. They turned politicians into their bitch. And as
long as there is demand for cheap labor, people will keep coming.

---

Gaetz says some Reps for E-verify changed their minds within a day, he
supports it even against big business, the measure will help US
workers. That makes sense.

---

The sim [site](https://coastal.climatecentral.org/). South Florida,
Lousiana, NY are in trouble.

---

Shared a 7m sea level rise simulation before, that NY area under water
now in Brooklyn is [in red](searise2.jpg). If a place can get
flooded by extreme water events today, after sea rises it will remain
flooded for good. Flooding today is a sign of permanent burial
tomorrow.  Heed the warning and bolt.

---

"@luckytran@med-mastodon.com

Huge storm and flooding in NYC today. This is 4th Ave and Carroll St
in Brooklyn, which is near Gowanus Canal"

[[-]](https://med-mastodon.com/@luckytran/111149023694382666)

---



