# Week 16

First Post: "Russian oil exports hit near three-year high in March
despite sanctions in wake of Ukraine war: IEA"

---

Hindustan Times: "World Bank President Malpass praises India for
empowering women, mentions PM Modi"

---

Zambia goes to US column

[[-]](2022/12/ru-africa.html)

---

The Hydrogen Stream: "Global pipeline projects to surge by 2035, says
Rystad.. Rystad Energy said hydrogen pipeline projects could expand by
as much as 700% over the next 12 years. It said that more than 4,300
km of pipelines already transport hydrogen, with more than 90% of them
in Europe and North America. It estimates that there are about 91
planned pipeline projects throughout the world, with 30,300 kilometers
set to go online by around 2035. 'Spain, France, and Germany are among
the countries committed or considering cross-border pipelines to
facilitate energy flows, while the UK with its extensive gas grid
finds itself in a fantastic position to switch from natural gas to
hydrogen,' it noted"

---

The media guy Maxwell was in it, Ghishalashalaylay's father..
[This lady](mbl/2023/ejagoffmaxwell2.jpg). He was portrayed as a
connected, scheming jerkoff, based on his biz history portrayal
looks correct.

---

It takes place pre-Perestroika, one gov official's line was the best
"it’s just a video game.. to you, yes, but to the men in power, it is
a slippery slope from selling one game to selling all of Russia to the
highest bidder".

And Russia was nearly sold to the highest bidder during the 90s,
wasn't it? That's how the world ended up with Putin.

---

*Tetris* was a fine movie

---

Bertrand Russell: "Although this may seem a paradox, all exact science
is dominated by the idea of approximation. When a man tells you that
he knows the exact truth about anything, you are safe in inferring
that he is an inexact man"

---

According to Hersh Germans were instrumental in passing the intel to
Syria, in its fight against al Nusra and ISIS.

---

It may be possible WH knew..  The 2008-2016 Iran (Syrian friend)
raproachement efforts are well known; Let's also remember the
backtracking on the "red line" ultimatum.

---

They went behind Bama's back to give Assad intel on the opposition?
Quite a claim. 

Hersh, *The Killing of Osama bin Laden*: "The administration’s policy
was contradictory. They wanted Assad to go but the opposition was
dominated by extremists. So who was going to replace him?  To say
Assad’s got to go is fine, but if you follow that through—therefore
anyone is better. It’s the ‘anybody else is better’ issue that the JCS
had with Obama’s policy... The Joint Chiefs felt that a direct
challenge to Obama’s policy would have 'had a zero chance of success.'
So in the autumn of 2013 they decided to take steps against the
extremists without going through political channels, by providing US
intelligence to the militaries of other nations, on the understanding
that it would be passed on to the Syrian army and used against the
common enemy, Jabhat al-Nusra and Islamic State... 'Obama didn’t know,
but Obama doesn’t know what the JCS does in every circumstance, and
that’s true of all presidents' [an official said].

---
