# Week 43

Time for a chillax

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.dribbble.com/users/1799092/screenshots/3619263/drib_01.gif'/> 

---

Andersen: "The year that manifesto was published [1984] companies
bought back only a few billion dollars’ worth of their stock, but as
the decade ended five years later, the annual average was tens of
billions. That’s when Jack Welch (Jack Welch!) announced that GE (GE!)
was going to buy back the equivalent of $21 billion worth of its own
stock because that was so much easier than 'going out and taking a
wild swing' at developing new technologies or new businesses. It was
the biggest single buyback yet. Welch was acting even more like a Wall
Street guy, and Wall Street redoubled its love for him. Unquestionably
a new party had started"

---

H2 Insight: "Up-to-2.5GW green hydrogen hub in Australia ‘to begin
construction early next year’ after $45m federal grant"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Fluxys And OQGN Ink MoU To Collaborate On Hydrogen
And CO2 Infrastructure Projects In Oman"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/111/302/169/608/441/270/small/3c5fa5783a720ea8.png'/> 

---

Pickling beans - Slavic style.. We'll see how it turns out

---

So El - Le Vicomte \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/4SHlpMJvl7g)

---

China Daily: "Two green hydrogen project agreements were signed at the
third Belt and Road Forum on Oct 17th to 18th, which marked a
milestone that green hydrogen projects enter the stage of China’s BRI"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "European Commission Backs RINA’s Hydra Project to
Drive 100% Hydrogen Fuelled Steel Production"

---

The Verge: "Google paid a whopping $26.3 billion in 2021 to be the
default search engine everywhere.. We knew Google paid handsomely to
be the default browser in Safari, Firefox, and elsewhere. Now we know,
after years of guessing, exactly what it cost"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "UK Passes New Laws to Bolster Energy Security,
Hydrogen & Deliver Net Zero.. Landmark legislation, the Energy Act
2023, has received Royal Assent, signaling a transformation in the
United Kingdom’s approach to energy security, affordability, and the
road to net zero emissions"

---

Green Car Congress: "Hyzon Motors Deploys Hydrogen-Powered Waste
Collection Truck in Australia"

---

Libya emits massive amts of pollution, it goes all the way to Greece,
Crete, TR, who also emit their own and can pollute eachother depending
on wind conditions. Dark areas show highest levels.. Cannot live in
these places and they pollute neighbors. 

---

\#Pollution from Ventusky

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/306/726/170/127/350/original/61699b5a36cc8876.jpg)

---

H2 Central: "Krefeld invests in hydrogen powered public transport - Solaris"

[[-]](https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/077/114/241/original/ff8999ecbc7765df.png)

---

FuelCellsWorks: "H2X Global And KTM Unveil Revolutionary Hydrogen Van
Prototype"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/111/302/117/573/837/438/small/b21ca8be278639ce.png'/> 

---

Info below addresses Mearsheimer's point too, US has been an enabler
of Israel, there is no two-state right now because noone on either
side (US, ISR) wanted it, despite declerations to the contrary. US has
aided and abetted Israel's state terrorism for decades. Ever since HW
noone truly gave them a hard-time on anything.

---

I remember the announcement for this, Netan was there with Obama, even
mfker's usual smart alec smirk was gone, he was like "Dam. I'm getting
*paid* here. Lovin it".

---

Check the date, a month before election. Hillary Clinton still lost.

Reuters: [2016/10] U.S., Israel sign $38 billion military aid package"

---

\#Mearsheimer \#ISR \#PAL

[[-]](https://youtu.be/8uVj-wyWd7I?t=185)

---

Firstpost: "Ukraine war orders beginning to boost revenues for big US
defence contractors"

---

Shady characters connected to battery-electric interests tried but
they could not sink Adani. It's now the Round Two bitch! Are you
ready?

Reuters: "India's Adani Group to raise $4 bln to fund green hydrogen
plans"

---

"@w7voa@journa.host

An Australian company plans to build a $100 million green hydrogen
research and manufacturing complex in New Mexico"

---

"@respectmyplanet@mstdn.social

.. If you’re asking about powertain systems that are good for the
environment & economy and available for mass adoption now, the answer
is PHEVs and HVs as \#hydrogen production infrastructure ramps. Toyota
just coined a new axiom called the 1-6-90 rule meaning one long range
BEV could have made 6 PHEVs or 90 HVs.  The 1-6-90 rule is how we can
finally communicate that long range BEVs are not as effective for
impacting climate change goals as other technologies"

---

TNW: "Netherlands starts building €1.5bn hydrogen pipeline to cut
reliance on natural gas"

---

Good one

Llama in a Tux: "don't you understand? the human race IS an endless
number of monkeys. and everyday we produce an endless number of words.
and one of us already wrote hamlet"

---

Not questioning "their right to exist" - exist, but how? 

---

FDR was against the creation of Israel. Later Truman ok'd the
idea.. but we know his entire IRel team was against it, to a man. Hell
even the Brits were against it at the time. Imagine that!  Colonizers
who caused upwards of millions of deaths in India alone via a simple
act of partition - against.

---

SCMP: "China PLA stationed up to 6 warships in Middle East over past
week amid rising tensions from Israel-Gaza war"

---

The National: "Plans for hydrogen pipeline from Scotland to Germany accelerated"

---

FuelCellsWorks: "Hyzon Announces Agreement With New Zealand’s Largest
Heavy-duty Truck Fleet Owner"

---

Informed Comment: "Military Contractors Are Targeting
Commuters.. Weapons and tech interests are skirting advertising rules
and using Washington, D.C.'s subway system to influence policymakers"

---

CNBC: "Alphabet's stock is having its worst day in a year after cloud
revenue missed estimates"

---

Hansson: "[2022] Why we're leaving the cloud.. Now the argument
[against running your own servers] always goes: Sure, but you have to
manage these machines!  The cloud is so much simpler! The savings will
all be there in labor costs! Except no. Anyone who thinks running a
major service like [ours] in the cloud is 'simple' has clearly never
tried. Some things are simpler, others more complex, but on the whole,
I've yet to hear of organizations at our scale being able to
materially shrink their operations team, just because they moved to
the cloud.

It was a wonderful marketing coup, though. Sold with analogies like
'well you don't run your own powerplant either, do you?' or 'are
infrastructure services really your core competency?'. Then lathered
up with a thick coat of NEW-NEW-NEW paint, and The Cloud has beamed so
brightly only the luddites would consider running their own servers in
its shadow..

Meanwhile Amazon in particular is printing profits renting out servers
at obscene margins...  Of course it's expensive to rent your computers
from someone else. But it's never presented in those terms. The cloud
is sold as computing on demand, which sounds futuristic and cool, and
very much not like something as mundane as 'renting computers', even
though that's mostly what it is.

But this isn't just about cost. It's also about what kind of internet
we want to operate in the future. It strikes me as downright tragic
that this decentralized wonder of the world is now largely operating
on computers owned by a handful of mega corporations. If one of the
primary AWS regions go down, seemingly half the internet is offline
along with it. This is not what DARPA designed!"

---

CNBC: "Japan probes Google for alleged antitrust violations in search
practices"

---

The Sound Stylistics - Freedom Sound \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/rPp_myflrA8)

---

The Guardian: "EU-funded report calls for wealth of super-rich to be
taxed, not income.. Wealthiest 3,000 working on ‘edge of legality’
using shell companies to funnel dividends and own property to avoid
income tax, says study"

---

"100,000 EVs Suddenly Turn To JUNK! China’s No.2 EV Company Goes
Bankrupt! China’s EVs Have No Future"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/wEDZmrzII14?t=233)

---

Electrek: "WM Motor latest startup to file for bankruptcy in China's
EV [sector]"

---

It looks great.. I've mentioned range requests before.. It is a
scalable idea.

"@scy@chaos.social

.. \#Protomaps, a way to serve vector #maps of the entire world using
a single static file and HTTP range requests.

It’s basically a static site generator for interactive maps. Tile
servers are pretty much obsolete now. No database needed, you can run
your interactive, smooth-zooming vector map from any HTTP storage. S3,
Caddy running on your Wi-Fi router, even GitHub pages.

[https://protomaps.com/](https://protomaps.com/)

It’s open source & free to use. Wow. 🤯"

---

Mitteldeutsche Zeitung: "Germany's first certified \#hydrogen power
plant went into operation in \#Leipzig on Monday"

---

Hindustan Times: "Hamas attacks don't justify killing 'millions of
innocents': Brazil's president"

---

Ars Technica: "Jon Stewart and his weekly talk show The Problem with
Jon Stewart are out at Apple, according to reports from The New York
Times and Variety. Apple canceled the show just weeks before its third
season began taping"

---

"Lower Pay and Fewer Benefits" \#Stewart

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/i8PkAmYUPpg)

---

Lower than four months ago. Whatz wit dis bizaznitch? Wheres my FOMO biznatches

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/295/186/046/613/281/original/6995ac8457d63a8a.png'/> 

---

Covering short means getting out of treasury short position judging
price will rise yield will fall which usually reflect fed rates so
this guess suggests there will be a recession and fed will lower rates
soon. There is a certain pessimism among some investors 2024 will be
the year of recession. We'll see..

CNBC: "Bill Ackman covers bet against Treasurys, says 'too much risk
in the world' to bet against bonds"

---

Nice move by gov.. The recent announcement on support for H2 cars is
good too

The Guardian: "Hydrogen boiler push to continue despite verdict of UK
watchdog.. Government.. resist[s] conclusion that heat pumps are ‘only
viable’ option for heating UK homes"

---

H2 for heating would be the perfect solution for this problem.

Grist: "It turns out gas stoves have much more in common with
cigarettes. A new investigation by NPR and the Climate Investigations
Center found that the gas industry tried to downplay the health risks
of gas stoves for decades"

---

Car Expert: "Australia is about to get its first hydrogen-powered fuel
cell car. It’s a two-seater sports car being developed by the team
from the University of NSW that previously set a Guinness World Record
with its four-seater solar car"

---

NBC News: "Louisiana Republican Mike Johnson elected House speaker"

---

That is funny

Yahoo News: "Trump boasts that he ‘killed’ Tom Emmer’s speaker bid"

---

Politico: "‘Look what came in the mail today!’ Orbán poses in a hat
from Trump.. ‘Viktor, you are great,’ is handwritten on a cap worn by
Hungarian leader"

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/F9SVEdcWAAAAbbO?format=jpg&name=small)

---

F24: "Guterres: 'It is important to also recognize the attacks by
Hamas did not happen in a vacuum. The Palestinian people have been
subjected to 56 years of suffocating occupation'"

---

Al-Monitor: "Jordan's Queen Rania accused Western leaders of a
"glaring double standard" for not condemning Israel's killing of
Palestinian civilians in its bombardment of Gaza"

---

TDB: "Al Jazeera Journalist Learns Israeli Airstrike Wiped Out His
Family While On-Air"

---

Doctorow: "Woe betide the internet user looking for a simple omelette
recipe - the top-ranked specimens have all been prepended with
thousands of words of SEO verbiage about 'the first time I ate an
egg.'

With the advent of Large Language Models, Google results have gotten
even worse, as chatbots churn out nonsense on a superhuman
scale. Incredibly, Google’s response to this is its own chatbot, which
will summarize the garbage novellas generated by SEO creeps into
florid paragraphs laden with 'hallucinated' lies presented with the
conscienceless of a narcissist.

Search and spam have always been at war. In the Altavista days,
“search engine optimization” consisted of ending every page with seven
paragraphs of white-on-white keywords ('keyword stuffing').

Today, the SEO industry uses much more sophisticated
techniques.. Google is losing. Search for your local restaurant - a
verified Google merchant, no less!- and the top result will be a
scammer that cloned their website, jacked up their prices by 15
percent, who’ll take your order.. place the order with the restaurant
[taking its cut]"

---

Why is pollution bad for North Africa, even Northwest Australia? The
pollution likely correlates with fossil fuel producers (Libya, the
Gulf), and major consumers (China, India) but some areas don't make
sense. US is a major producer, mostly clean. Australia is seen as an
advanced country, a major producer too like US, but there is
pollution.

The MENA area, China has it bad. Europe fine except Greece, west TR,
and parts of Italy.

---

PM 2.5 pollution levels - the world, as of 10/24 21:00 GMT

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/291/540/723/993/945/original/285c720cba51c84d.jpg)

---

Trying very hard to be inside the circle of trust 👌 

---

A proper libertarian, aren't you Focker?

---

😂 😂 

The Verge: "Peter Thiel was reportedly an FBI informant"

---

"@JohanEmpa@mastodon.green

Just saw that some trucks in Australia drive two 800 km round trips
per day with a total weight of 175 ton in one of the directions... Two
Cellcentric 150 kW fuel cells can haul 65 ton 1000 km and fill up H2
in 15 minutes. Surely doubling that would be enough for an Australian
road train.

---

Nikkei Asia: "Isuzu and Toyota to mass produce light hydrogen fuel
cell truck"

<img width='340' src='https://assets.journa.host/media_attachments/files/111/291/057/442/833/822/small/9ca76487e1cc91f8.jpeg'/> 

---

China H2 Bulletin: "HyFun, a hydrogen storage and transportation
solution innovator headquartered in Shanghai, announced it began
construction of 10,000 ton magnesium-based hydrides production plant
in Yixing, Jiangsu province. The plant is set to be the first
industrial scale solid-state hydrogen storage material production line
in China..

On July 5th, HyFun released the first generation ton-level
magnesium-based solid-state hydrogen storage and transportation
vehicle (MH-001T) which uses magnesium alloy as the medium to store
and transport hydrogen through the reversible reaction of magnesium
and hydrogen. This hydrogen storage vehicle has about three times
capacity of high-pressure gaseous hydrogen storage, and the storage
state is at normal temperature and pressure. It can realize safe,
efficient and economical hydrogen storage and transportation"

[[-]](https://chinahydrogen.substack.com/p/10000-ton-magnesium-based-hydrides)

---

"@dankennedy_nu@journa.host

It’s unconscionable to keep using the SAT. New data show in stunning
detail that it does little more than measure family wealth"

[[-]](https://journa.host/@dankennedy_nu/111284095877412262)

---

Firstpost: "Hungary blocks EU's $500 million military aid to Ukraine
over being called 'sponsor of war'"

---

I smell psyop. Added it to [da list](../../2022/07/putin-health.html)

Mirror: "Russian premier Vladimir Putin suffered a 'cardiac arrest' on
Sunday evening [the source] suggests all recent appearances..  have
been carried out by a body double or doubles"

---

Major activity all throughout the front.. The pincer movement around Avdiivka
is apparent. 

```python
geo = [['Main'],['Andriivka','Klischchiivka'],['Bilohorivka','Verkhnokamianske'],
       ['Avdiivka','Opytne'],['Bakhmut','Yahidne','Berkhivka'],['Novomykhailivka','Stepne','Marinka'],
       ['Synkivka','Kupiansk'],['Urozhaine','Staromaiorske'],['Robotyne','Verbove','Novoprokpivka']]
       
u.sm_plot_ukr4('ukrdata/fl-1024.csv','ukrdata/fl-1004.csv',geo,3,3,zoom=0.03,fsize=(10,10),)
```

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1VhdJYsQdxs2s9VmPV7aLsoR2BBGu-IUC)

---

Reuters: "Russian forces pound eastern Ukraine's Avdiivka"

---

A list of the US H2 hubs, what they are focusing on

H2 Fuel News: "Hydrogen Hubs and Funding Structure"

[[-]](http://www.hydrogenfuelnews.com/biden-7-billion-in-hydrogen-hubs/8561189/)

---

H2 Central: "The first long-distance gas pipeline in Germany is being
converted for hydrogen use, gas infrastructure company Open Grid
Europe (OGE) announced... Located in northwestern Germany, the
46-kilometre-long pipeline sections extend from the municipality of
Emsbüren to Bad Bentheim in Lower Saxony, and from Bad Bentheim to
Legden in neighbouring North Rhine-Wesphalia"

---

Recommending *Begin Again*, *The Burial*, *The Tourist*, *He Never Died*.

---

CBS News: "What is hydrogen energy, and is it a key to fighting
climate change?.. The White House calls the development of clean
hydrogen 'essential' in weaning the country off fossil fuels.. Over
the long terms, hydrogen could help decarbonize a slew of industries
and contribute to more than 20% of annual global emissions reductions
by 2050, according to an analysis by McKinsey & Co"

---

The Paris Sound Studio - Cha Ba Da Ba Da \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/F8EtNDdAf6Q)

---

Businessline: "Govt initiates talks on green hydrogen exports to EU
nations.. India is targeting.. European Union nations such as
Netherlands, Austria and Sweden for its green hydrogen
exports. Exports are sought under Article 6.2 of the Paris Agreement"

---

"@jasongorman@mastodon.cloud

Small, autonomous teams of mostly highly-skilled developers, working
closely with customers, doing frequent small releases of working
software that's being continually tested.

Or...

Big teams of mostly inexperienced developers being micromanaged by
people with no dev experience, working several degrees removed from
customers, doing large infrequent releases of buggy software that gets
tested late in the day by a separate team.

It's fascinating to watch orgs deliberately choosing the latter"

---

Apparently Bin Laden quoted the suffering in Iraq, due to sanctions
and Clinton bombings, as one of his reasons for 9/11..

---

The Guardian: "[2000] Half a million children have died in Iraq since
UN sanctions were imposed - most enthusiastically by Britain and the
US. Three UN officials have resigned in despair. Meanwhile, bombing of
Iraq continues almost daily"

[[-]](https://www.theguardian.com/theguardian/2000/mar/04/weekend7.weekend9)

---

It could be argued from two-state perspective Gaza was a problem for
Palestinians themselves.. Disconnected from the rest of Palestinians,
it is too strategic for Israelis to let be, maybe a Hamas+ plan
sacrificed their org (and a portion of their people sadly) for a state
in the West Bank. Their initial attack left such a deep mark that
invited a response from which there can't be any going back. Then Gaza
would make a stand, make a war to be remembered, so the oppo opinion
would have to shift to a big change, because both sides would have
bled enough for something different by then. Its sale to the rest of
decision makers, the public would be easier. That is one scenario.

---

If ISR fights tooth and nail to "de-Hamasify" Gaza, likely won't want
to leave it once they have it. What will happen to Pals living there?
Will there be calls to relocate them to the West Bank? Then all Pals
will be in one place, is the next move the formation of Palestinian
state exclusively in West Bank? The ISR settlers there can be told to
go to Gaza, a sort of land swap, and two-state solution starts? One
scenario has it this is why someone kickstarted the whole thing
starting in Oct 7..

---

NYT: "The United States has advised Israel to delay a ground assault
of the Gaza Strip to allow for more hostage negotiations and
humanitarian aid delivery, U.S. officials say"

---

I dont think HW hardball with Israel cost him the election. He had a
disadvantage going into that election due to larger macro issues. In
2016 Obama gave them billions in aid, it should have helped Hillary
Clinton, she lost. Trump during his admin was supportive, had pro ISR
rhetoric, it didn't help him either.

---

Bloomberg: "Germany to Fast-Track Hydrogen Grid in Cleaner Energy
Transit.. Country to present acceleration law by the end of the
year.. Hydrogen network consists of 11,200 kilometers of pipes"

---

H2 Insight: "Demand for green hydrogen to skyrocket after EU nations
approve mandatory usage targets in industry and transport.. Member
states agree that 42% of hydrogen used by industry and 1% of transport
fuel must be renewable by 2030"

---

"@Mjack@petrous.vislae.town

Robocop is about a guy who died on the job and they made him come back
to work anyway."

---

"India to Take All Measures to Make Country Competitive in Producing
Green Hydrogen.. Union Minister R K Singh said"

---

"@kaye@octodon.social

Earlier this year, I was shown an AI-written blog post about "How To
Make A 32 Bit Wine Bottle." About 80% of Google search results are now
AI-written blog posts, but this one's notable, because it's a great
illustration of a failure mode unique to LLMs.

The chatbot that wrote this repeatedly gets confused between 'wine'
(the drink) and 'WINE' (the Linux thing.) It attempts to mash these
topics together and does so with grammatically plausible sentences
that are, however, complete nonsense"

[Pic1](https://assets.octodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/222/403/206/253/276/original/92237ecd2a56cbf2.png),
[Pic2](https://assets.octodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/222/405/253/759/589/original/1f155af8053138ec.png)

---

"@shokuninstudio@mastodon.social

[I]f you call someone artificially intelligent it’s the same as
calling them stupid"

---

😂

"@bagder@mastodon.social

The I in LLM stands for Intelligence"

---

This AI is so smart it is scary. Just kidding, it's funny. Like haha,
like clown funny it makes you laugh, as in at it, not with it

"I’m banned for life from advertising on Meta... I’m a full-time
instructor in Python and Pandas, teaching in-person courses at
companies around the world .. Never mind that the first is a
programming language and the second is a library for data analysis in
Python. Meta’s AI system noticed that I was talking about Python and
Pandas, assumed that I was talking about the animals (not the
technology), and banned me. The appeal that I asked for wasn’t
reviewed by a human, but was reviewed by another bot, which (not
surprisingly) made a similar assessment"

[[-]](https://lerner.co.il/2023/10/19/im-banned-for-life-from-advertising-on-meta-because-i-teach-python/)

---

Does the world look like it's being run by an empire? Empire is order,
Ottomans, Romans were feudal parasites, but at least they understood
the concept of 'unrest'. There is no order here.. It's like everyone
is acting within a few months of horizon, well, now that I think about
it likely is three months which is the window of a quarterly business
report... All is synched to a quarter.. Terrorist attack in Africa?
It's not "empire", it is a mining corp paying "Islamic terorists" to
scare locals off the land. They get mining rights, possess the land,
all is done so some jackass at a posh office abroad can meet his
quarterly goals. Columbian trade unionist should not be scared of
Jason Bourne coming after them, watch for a local thug or a mercenary
hired by Coca-Cola shooting your ass.

---

There is no empire. There is only Coca-Cola

---

Stefano Torossi - Running Fast \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/T86oQ8DNpNw)

---

Politico: "The Israel-Hamas war cuts deep into Germany’s soul.. Amid a
spate of violent demonstrations and anti-Semitic incidents, Germany’s
post-Holocaust identity is on the line...

While similar scenes [protest] have played out across much of the
world [as in Berlin], for Germany’s leaders, they are profoundly
embarrassing and strike at the heart of the nation’s identity, on
account of the country’s Nazi past...

'Free Palestine from German guilt,' [leftist protestors] chanted in
English. Germany, the argument went, should get over its Holocaust
history, at least when it comes to support for Israel. The irony is
that there is much sympathy for this view on the far right"

---

You start hearing this slogan in protests now, especially in NYC - I
guess it is in opposition to "Never Again" of the previous generation.

Tribune: "As a British Jew, I Say: Not in My Name.. In ever-growing
numbers, British Jews are opposing the government's attempts to
weaponise their grief for authoritarian ends by calling for a
ceasefire — and protesting to end the mass murder of the Palestinian
people"

---

With W I remember from a report PM Sharon took him for a helicopter
ride showed him a Palestinian settlement in poor downtrodden areas W
was sold on Israel. Probably thought 'these Palestenic people are
losers, cant support that!'

---

This is HW, not W

---

HuffPost: "[Marans, 2021] Although the circumstances today are not
identical, Bush’s showdown with Israel in 1991 over the terms of
U.S. loan guarantees serves as an illustration of what a more
evenhanded U.S. approach to the conflict could look like. Bush
withheld the loan guarantees until he was satisfied that the money
borrowed with U.S. assistance would not go toward Israeli settlements
in the Palestinian territories. 'Bush established consequences for bad
behavior, and he got results,' said James Zogby, president of the Arab
American Institute"

---

Politico: "A now-former U.S. official [Josh Paul] explains why he
resigned rather than pave the way for more arms transfers to Israel as
it battles Hamas...

'I know this is an unpopular opinion and too soon, but maybe the best
thing for Israel right now is not security assistance in the sort of
volume that makes them think they can afford to just ignore the
Palestinian question and hope that, cordoned off, it will go away. Or
to put it another way, if we weren’t giving them billions a year for
decades, is it more or less likely they would have found it in their
interest for the Oslo process to work and we wouldn’t be where we are
today...

[W]e always talk about Israel has a right to defend itself. And let’s
provide Israel with the Iron Dome, which by the way, I entirely
support. They should not have to live under rocket fire.

But we never turned it around and think about the threat to
Palestinians from Israeli incursions into their villages in the West
Bank on a constant basis, from bombardment from Israel against homes
in Gaza, or housing demolitions in the West Bank. We always approach
this problem from one perspective, and I think that’s part of the
problem.. we’ve seen for over 20 years that the commitment we made to
Israel of security for peace, essentially, has not led to security or
peace and in fact, leads to insecurity and makes peace further away...

[P]eople don’t grasp the day-to-day realities, and tend to only see
one side of the conflict, because that’s the side that’s easy to
access, that is media savvy, that is in many ways more relatable from
an American perspective'"

[[-]](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2023/10/20/josh-paul-israel-civilians-00122716)

---

New Lines Magazine: "As the Middle East Reels, a New Option Takes
Shape: Expulsion.. The idea, which has gone through multiple
iterations over the decades since Israel’s founding, by turns illegal,
unworkable or extreme, posits the wholesale population transfer of
Gazans into the Sinai... Despite the long-standing prima facie
rejection by the Arab world of the idea of expulsion, this solution
is, apparently, increasingly seen as more feasible than asking Israel
to conduct its upcoming war on the strip with a judicious amount of
violence or to figure out a way to actually coexist with the
Palestinians. It has been floated by European and Israeli officials
without irony, which likely prompted Sisi’s response as well as
off-the-record comments by Egyptian and Arab officials to the media
pointing out the double standard of feigning concern for the human
rights of Palestinians while orchestrating a plan to deport them en
masse under pain of death..

During Israel’s creation in 1948, Zionist militia groups and the
Israeli army that grew out of them followed a blueprint called.. Plan
D [which] identified specific Palestinian cities and towns to be
targeted and provided instructions for how to expel their
inhabitants. An internal Israeli military intelligence document
reveals that at least 75% of the Palestinians who fled did so as a
result of 'military actions by Zionist militias, psychological
campaigns aimed at frightening Arabs into leaving, and dozens of
direct expulsions,' scholars Joel Beinin and Lisa Hajjar note.

Indeed, even shortly after 1948, a plan to resettle Palestinians in
the Sinai was tried... [I]n the early 1950s, the United Nations
hatched a plan to resettle tens of thousands of Palestinians in the
Sinai, thereby eliminating the Palestinian right of return. It
ultimately failed because, as Adler writes, 'The 1955 uprising in Gaza
— what would become known as the March Intifada — forced
U.N. officials to abandon refugee resettlement projects and recognize
Palestinian claims to a political identity of their own.'"

---

Zakaria: "Professor Dimitri Shumsky of Hebrew University writes [in
Haaretz.. ] provocatively that for years Netanyahu developed and
advanced a destructive, warped political doctrine that held that
strengthening Hamas at the expense of the Palestinian Authority would
be good for Israel. This approach divided the Palestinians, undermined
the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, and made it easy for
Netanyahu to claim there was no path to a Palestinian state.  Shumsky
cites a Jerusalem Post report that at a Likud Party meeting in 2019,
Netanyahu made clear that he supported the money that the Qatari
government was sending to Hamas. That way, Bibi is reported to have
said 'Israel would foil the establishment of a Palestinian state'. Tal
Schneider references the same meeting, and also notes that most of the
time Israel policy was to treat the Palestinian Authority as a burden
and Hamas as an asset"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/GI0810gD6Eg?t=63)

---
