# Week 12


"Union dues and typically hover around 1-2%. The most common structure
sets dues as a percentage of gross earnings. If dues are 1%, workers
pay $1 for every 100 dollar earned"

---

Investopedia: "In 27 U.S. states, 'right to work' laws allow non-union
members to obtain the benefits of collective bargaining by unions
without paying union dues. The laws serve to undermine union financing
and organizing"

---

Democrats doing lefty things..? Hell has frozen over ðŸ˜¶

Yahoo News: "Democratic lawmakers in the upper chamber of the Michigan
Legislature voted to repeal the stateâ€™s 2012 'right-to-work' law,
which prohibits public and private unions from requiring that nonunion
employees pay union dues.. it is expected to be signed into law"

---

F24: "Push for carbon-free hydrogen accelerates in US.. A source of
renewable and storable energy, hydrogen is experiencing a breakthrough
in the United States after years of sluggish growth as Biden
administration climate policies spark major investments. 'America came
from nowhere and now they're in the lead,' Mark Hutchinson, CEO of
Fortescue Future Industries, said of America's ascent in renewable
energy in general and hydrogen more specifically, at last week's
CERAWeek energy conference in Houston, Texas"

---

I guess 'some city officials' wanted to maximize the amount of bribes
they were earning, they opened up every possible square centimeter of
the city to construction.

---

City green spaces as percentage of land (data [source](http://www.worldcitiescultureforum.com/data/of-public-green-space-parks-and-gardens)),

```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv('city_green.csv',sep='\t',index_col=['City'])
df = df.sort_values('Figure')
df['Figure'].to_csv('green-out.txt')
```

[Output](green-out.txt)

Stanpoli is not doing good. 

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

A several-year-long technical and economical assessment concluded that
the whole German gas pipeline network is suitable for transporting
\#hydrogen.

This assessment included 30 types of steel used in the German network.

The German Chancellor, the Economic minister and the finance minister
have been informed about the results" via Die Welt

---

Future Meat, The world of meat substitutes, \#DW

[[-]](https://youtu.be/5Vq03gYWiXE?t=1273)

---

H2 storage in carbon nanotubes

[[-]](../../2022/02/h2-carbon-nanotubes.html)

---

Energy & Sustainable World: "[T]here are innovations on the horizon
that will make large-scale production of hydrogen much more
feasible. One such innovation is called Nanotubes. These tiny tubes
can store large amounts of hydrogen gas at room temperature...

Another innovation involves attaching some nanoparticles (i.e., tiny
particles) to some plastics; this makes them hydrophobic, which means
they won't absorb any water or moisture. When these hydrophobic
plastics are in contact with water, they release their stored hydrogen
gas (H2) and then change back into their hydrophilic state"

---

The stock market is still overvalued, Wilshire above 190. Levels of
around 100 would be normal. High FED rates can help get there. Same
for housing prices. Housing is a huge part of CPI and PCE.

[[-]](../../2021/01/stats.html#wilshire)

---

Nasdaq and Russell have parted ways..

The Russell tracks small companies, Nasdaq is tech heavy. Tech
companies are hurting likely due to contagion fears from SVIB, SB.

<img width='340' src='mbl/2023/market2.jpg'/> 

---
