# Week 41


"@BrentToderian@mastodon.online

Looks dumb, right?

This is how we design many cities"

[[-]](https://files.mastodon.online/media_attachments/files/111/183/152/180/083/002/original/74f08efe9a2307fa.png)

---

\#Billionaires

[[-]](https://cdn.masto.host/writing/media_attachments/files/111/204/219/918/671/867/small/5a87de066befcfd7.jpeg)

---

"@wilbr@glitch.social

'Israel's right to exist' is curious framing I hear often. If armed
water defenders broke out of an Indian Reservation and attacked a
nearby US town I wouldn't be talking about America's 'right to
exist.'.. Billions of dollars a year & millions of people say Israel
will continue existing in some form. The question is if Netanyahu's
government and policies should exist, and what equitable truth &
reconciliation would look like for Palestinians...

The idea that the only possible way to allow the victims of genocide
to survive is to just straight up give them the cities and houses of
Palestinians doesn't set up conditions for justice, and continued
blockading and encroachment ditching Palestine into smaller and more
impoverished areas with random (and daily) escalatory violence just
pours salt in the wound. The West created a messed up situation and
finances its right-wing government's activities. Arabs pay the price,
as we see so often"

---

The Lever: "Insurers Are Gaming Medicare â€” To The Tune Of $140
Billion.. The federal government is losing as much as 140 billion
dollars per year by subsidizing private Medicare Advantage plans,
according to a bombshell new report. In the groundbreaking
investigation, health care researchers identified the four major ways
that private insurers systematically exploit the taxpayer-funded
national health insurance program while denying care to the nationâ€™s
most vulnerable patients"

---

Some thought we'd never see the day.. 

"@Linux_Is_Best@mastodon.social

Microsoft, quietly, has published a guide on how to download and
install Linux.

No... Seriously... It is not a joke...

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/linux/install

The article was published September 29, 2023 (9 days ago).

The guide provides every option available, too. Starting with using
their Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), to using a Virtual Machine,
and even on "Bare Metal" alongside Windows.

That's right, Microsoft now tells you how to dual-boot Linux. ðŸ¤¯"

---

H2 Central: "Green Hydrogen â€“ Masdar and Boeing Join Forces to
Accelerate the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Industry in the UAE and
globally"

---

Reuters: "First hydrogen train in Middle East to begin trials next
week, Saudi energy minister says"

<img width='340' src='https://www.middle-east-online.com/sites/default/files/styles/home_special_coverage_1920xauto/public/2023-10/hydrogen%20train%20saudi%20arabia.jpg?itok=raS2qksA'/> 

---

NYT: "E-Bikes Are Convenient. They Can Also Cause Fatal Fires... Just
before midnight on a Friday in January, a fire tore through a
three-story house in East Elmhurst, Queens, injuring 10 people inside
and killing a 63-year-old man who was trapped on the second
floor. Five days later, on a rainy Wednesday afternoon, another fire
broke out in the basement of a house in Forest Hills, Queens, where an
unauthorized day care center was housed. Eighteen children were
injured, one seriously.

The cause of both fires was rechargeable lithium-ion batteries, which
power the e-bikes and e-scooters that have become ubiquitous on city
streets.. [but] deadly, unintended consequence has emerged: Storing
and charging such bikes and scooters indoors can create a
tinderbox. Last year, the batteries caused 216 fires, with 147
injuries and six deaths. As of Feb. 27 this year, they were
responsible for 30 fires, 40 injuries and two deaths, according to the
Fire Department"

[[-]](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/06/realestate/e-bikes-fires-danger.html)

---

Stiglitz: "One of battles has been with IMF when they wanted to change
their charter to force developing countries to have capital market
liberalization. When the IMF was founded in 1944 with Keynes, Keynes
did not believe in capital market liberalization. So the institution he
helped create [.. some years later] stabbed him in the back"

---

NYT: "Gaza Has Suffered Under 16-Year Blockade.. Held in place by
Israel and Egypt, the blockade restricts imports to the region and
prevents most people from leaving"

---

F24: "Gaza: blockaded enclave scarred by war and poverty"

[[-]](https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20231008-gaza-blockaded-enclave-scarred-by-war-and-poverty)

---

Stiglitz: "Neoliberalism.. assumed away market imperfections (like
imperfections in information and imperfect risk markets)... 

With imperfect risk markets, trade liberalization could make everyone
in every country worse off.

With imperfect capital markets, capital market liberalization may be
welfare [as in standard of living] decreasing"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/aF1QzSLOy4M?t=845)

---

BTW Israel created Hamas

[[-]](2020/06/10-myths-israel.html#hamas)

---

"Invading by land air and sea".. sea is a dinky boat, air is a dude on
paraglider.. If they cause X amt of casualties Israel will cause 10X,
via real sea, real land, and real air force on an area that is
already an open-air prison.

---

Attacks from Gaza should be seen as prison riots rather than an
independent sovereign actor's atttacks on a neighbor.

---



