# Week 46


H2 Insight: "Siemens Energy officially inaugurated its new 1GW PEM
electrolyser factory in Berlin this morning, in the presence of German
Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Vice-Chancellor Robert Habeck"

<img width='340' src='https://mastodon.derg.nz/system/cache/preview_cards/images/000/225/152/original/05a007b0cd0ebbbf.jpeg'/> 

---

"@grmpyprogrammer@phpc.social

.. Chat[GPT]-powered [coder aid] tools will spit out all sorts of
crummy code full of bugs and impossible to test, and then companies
will try and pay poverty wages to fix it. I get paid what I get paid
because of what I know — I will not work for anyone who thinks my job
is to correct the output of a bullshit machine"

---

Business Insider: "In October, Cruise lost its permit in California
entirely after an incident in which a pedestrian was dragged beneath
one of its driverless vehicles 20 feet after it ran her over after she
was first struck by a different car. GM, Cruise's parent company, then
paused all Cruise robotaxi operations nationwide"

---

Ukraine/Russia frontline comparison as a browsable map, comparison
between 10/24 (blue) and 11/11 (red). RU advances around Avdiivka are
clear to see. Another avoidable war but being executed thanks to the
West and their arms lobby.

[[-]](ukrmap1.html)

---

The Shadow World, Feinstein

[[-]](../../2023/11/shadow-world.html)

---

Reshare, Medea Benjamin \#Hedges

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/FN5FgiwYGp0?start=452&end=594)

---

Hossein-Zadeh: "Frightened by the specter of peace and/or peace
dividends [after the fall of the Berlin Wall], beneficiaries of
military spending frantically sought to invent and substitute 'new
threats' for the 'communist threat' of the Cold War era, thereby
preempting the realization of peace dividends.

In pursuit of this goal, beneficiaries of war and militarism found a
strong, well-established network of politically savvy allies: radical
Zionist proponents of 'greater Israel.' Because the interests of these
two powerful groups converged over fomenting war and political
convulsion in the Middle East, an ominously potent alliance was forged
between them— ominous, because the mighty U.S. war machine was now
supplemented by the almost unrivaled public relations capabilities of
the hard-line pro-Israel lobby in the United States. The alliance is
unofficial and de facto; it is subtly forged through an elaborate
network of powerful militaristic think tanks"

[[-]](../../2023/11/political-econ-us-mil.html)

---

"Show me who makes a profit from war, and I’ll show you how to stop
the war" -- Henry Ford

---
