# Week 24

IEEE Spectrum: "[S]cientists have found that adding grooves to PEM
fuel cells can improve the performance of these devices by up to 50
percent compared with state-of-the-art conventional electrodes under
standard operating conditions... By separating proton and oxygen flow
along grooves and ridges, the new electrodes help improve the
transport of both"

<img width='340' src='https://spectrum.ieee.org/media-library/conceptual-illustration-showing-the-grooved-electrode-mechanism.jpg?id=34107702&width=1200&height=711'/> 

---

Peter Clough: "Our research [shows](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0196890420310608)
that blue hydrogen – which is produced using natural gas with
emissions captured and stored – could presently be sold for
£1.90 to £2.80 per kilogram, with nearly complete carbon capture"

---

Upstream: "Huge hydrogen demand prompts China to build pipeline
network from wind and solar energy-rich regions"

---

The Federation is not U.S. Europe is the Federation. U.S. is the
Pakled. \#TNG

---

Which culture does the Borg represent? The Soviets? Nazi Germans?
Actually the Borg is every culture. Every culture assimilates.  Every
culture is a tomato soup (not a melting pot); people are added into it
but the taste of tomato never goes away. \#TNG

---


Al-Monitor: "Saudi Arabia bans new Spider-Man movie that features
transgender flag"

---

Tsk tsk tsk.. You went woke then broke

"The former number-one beer seller in the United States is no longer
Bud Light after it was surpassed in sales by Modelo Especial"

---

"[Anheiser Busch] Marketing executives had hoped the partnership with
[a] transgender influencer would freshen up Bud Light's image - but
instead, it very nearly destroyed it, with celebrities and customers
slamming the company for going 'woke'"

---

"@Vigdisol@snabelen.no

\#sintef \#ntnu \#KyushuUniversity and our industry partners have
successfully secured funding for the HyLINE II project!  By closely
studying how #hydrogen interacts with #pipeline material, our project
aims to overcome critical challenges and unlock opportunities for
enhanced performance, efficiency, and safety for hydrogen gas
transport in both existing and new pipelines"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.masto.host/snabelenno/media_attachments/files/110/537/157/672/616/309/original/d2dc529eaa3f8efd.png'/>

---

The Japan Times: "Despite lofty hopes for a 'nuke-free world,' global
spending on nuclear weapons continued to surge in 2022, with the
world’s nine nuclear states continuing to modernize and expand their
arsenals. The alarming development — the third year in a row that
spending has risen - .. highlights a worsening global security
environment"

---

37:00 a migrant's children.. how much of their "heritage" do they retain?
There's the answer.

The father is French; by no means of a marginal, a non-distinctive,
unknown culture.

---

There is a way to produce tom. sauce that can last for months without
preservatives. Good to know.

\#Manu \#Bouris

[[-]](https://youtu.be/BzUwoi2vbFI?t=1106)

---
 
Supreme Beings Of Leisure - Under The Gun \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/IWPtqILjtLQ)

---

H2 Central: "Inter-American Development Bank, IDB Approves $400
Million Loan to Develop Chile Green Hydrogen Industry"

---

H2 Central: "Vortex Energy identifies at least two salt structures
suitable for hydrogen storage... This significant discovery is
expected to play a pivotal role in advancing the hydrogen economy,
providing a viable and sustainable solution for energy storage and
transportation"

---

"@moorsevnews@masto.ai

Polish company PESA has developed the world's first hydrogen
locomotive, the Hydrail!  Powered by hydrogen, this train can travel
up to 1,000 km on a single tank! It's a major step forward in
transportation and a cleaner alternative to traditional fuels.

Key features:

Top speed: 160 km/h 

Capacity: Up to 300 passengers 

Expected fuel efficiency: 30% higher than diesel trains"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.masto.ai/media_attachments/files/110/522/648/679/142/046/original/02a96857226f0845.jpg'/> 

---

H2 Central: "Uruguay Plans $4 Billion Green Hydrogen Facility
Investment"

---

Tootle, Tooty, Tooter - great names (Mastodon clients)

---

H2 Central: "Iberdrola, a world leader in green energy, and Trammo,
the world largest seaborne trader of anhydrous ammonia, have signed
the largest green ammonia framework agreement in Europe to date for
the purchase and sale of up to 100,000 tons of green ammonia per year
from 2026. The contract will enable Iberdrola to construct the first
green ammonia plant in southern Europe, which will be viable thanks to
European funding, and involves a total investment of 750 million euros"

---

\#AppleVisionPro

[[-]](https://youtu.be/M2LWcHIyNWQ?t=157)

---

Torquecafe: "Why Toyota’s hydrogen LMP is a big deal.. Lost amid the
excitement of Ferrari’s comeback Le Mans 24-hour win was a very
important car reveal from Toyota. The Japanese brand took the wraps
off the ‘GR H2 Racing Concept’ ahead of the race and it could be the
most important car the company makes in the next decade. Why is it so
important? Because the GR H2 is the latest attempt from the automotive
giant to make carbon neutral hydrogen fuel a realistic alternative to
petroleum and diesel"

---

The observation on the "last-chance" talk is interesting

Is the US Sleepwalking into War? 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/fO_5FaPhOs4?t=2367)

---

"French President Emmanuel Macron has asked South African President
Cyril Ramaphosa for an invitation to the upcoming BRICS summit in
Pretoria, French newspaper L’Opinion reported on Monday"

---

J S T A R S - Tripping The Light Fantastic \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/crvBPmYZc14?t=62)

---

One plus point for J. McCain, he was against the Citizens United
SCOTUS decision. Doesn't absolve him of the Iraq War, and if he were
alive he'd be all over this Ukraine bullshit, but still, good for him.

---

[Kurt Andersen](../../2023/06/evil-geniuses.html)

---

It is hilarious to me when it became apparent the obscenely free
market system was breaking down the first organized protest against it
came from people wanting even *more capitalism* - this was the Tea
Party movement right? They argued capitalism was being done wrong, a
*purer* form of it, more of it was needed. From the left Occupy Wall
Street arrived later, 2011. It should have been first.

---

Watched *Americonned*. Some people have it rough.. The system works
against them. It outlines the rise of neolib movement well..

---

CNBC: "Fed holds off on rate hike, but says two more are coming later
this year"

---

CPI YoY change (inflation) is down compared to previous month

```
2023-04-01  4.930320
2023-05-01  4.047609
```

---

Al-Monitor: "Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas will make a state
visit to China next week, Beijing said Friday, after China expressed
readiness to help facilitate Israeli-Palestinian peace talks"

---

\#RogerWaters \#Israel

[[-]](https://youtu.be/AwIZoJSrIJU?t=654)

---

Concentration in the ad market is a problem. I'm glad the EU looking
at this.

WION: "EU’s new antitrust charges to strike Google’s most successful
ads model"

---

Serbians are on the rise in sports aren't they.. Djokovic on tennis,
now Jokic for Denver Nuggets. Ivan make basket

---

Ukraine makes sense from "Cui Bono?" angle. UA as culprit is as likely
as US being one. Let's call this the B Scenario.  Good journalism by
European press, ARD, die Zeit, SWR.

---

```python
lat,lon = geo['nsleak1']
u.elev_at(lat,lon)
```

```text
Out[1]: -76
```

```python
lat,lon = geo['nsleak2']
u.elev_at(lat,lon)
```

```text
Out[1]: -73
```

Those are reachable depths (in meters).. a good diver could do it

---

AFAIK the two NS damage locations are below, near the island Bornholm.


```python
geo = u.sm_plot_ukr5()
```

<img width='340' src='ukr-18.jpg'/> 

---

UA had the capability? I guess expert divers could reach 80-90
meters in depth..  

Tagesschau: "The Dutch military intelligence service MIVD apparently
received the first indications of a possible attack by a commando from
Ukraine. The Dutch had therefore become aware of an attack plan on the
Nord Stream 1 pipeline. According to the MIVD, the attack should take
place as early as June 2022, using a rented boat [and divers]

The Dutch.. initially shared their findings with the USA and then also
warned various European countries, including Germany, of the possible
attack. Based on this report, the CIA is said to have warned the
Ukrainian secret service against putting such a plan into action"

---

The advance around Blahodatne looks good for UA. There are some other
gains visible but the one around Orikhiv cost dearly.. There is a spot
in the area called "Bradley Square" after all the Bradley (and
Leopard) tanks that were destroyed there.

---

How is the Ukranian counter-offensive going? Comparing the advance of
past three weeks,

```python
geo = [['Main'],['Orikhiv','Malaya Tokmachka','Robotyne'],['Zaporizhzhya NPP'],
       ['Avdiivka'],['Vuhledar','Velyka Novosilka'],['Khromove','Bakhmut'],
       ['Kherson'],['Blahodatne'],['Lobkove']]
u.sm_plot_ukr4('ukrdata/fl-0613.csv','ukrdata/fl-0521.csv',geo,3,3,zoom=0.03)
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fyk6LwYWAAAj7Ns?format=jpg&name=large)

---

H2 Central: "China Expected to be World’s Largest Importer of Clean
Hydrogen, Deloitte Says as it Urges World to Scale up Production
Capacity by 2050"

---

H2 Central: "Norway and Northern Germany State Agree on Blue Hydrogen
Supplies to Scale up Industry – CEW"

---

H2 Central: "Hyundai Motor Co., along with South Korean Ministry of
Environment, the Seoul Metropolitan Government, SK E&S and Tmap
Mobility, signed a MOU for making Seoul as a leading city in hydrogen
mobility, aiming to convert Seoul’s city buses, airport buses and
commuter buses into hydrogen ones"

---

The Register: "Meta confirms decentralized Twitter rival in the
works.. Not content to sit on the sidelines while Twitter falters,
Facebook parent Meta is working on a text-focused competitor, based on
the decentralized bones of fediverse favorite Mastodon. Reportedly
dubbed 'P92' internally, the app may well interoperate with Mastodon
by supporting the ActivityPub protocol"

---

"@msquebanh@mastodon.sdf.org

\#Hydrogen was in the news last week when the \#BCgovernment announced
an agreement with the Japanese #OrganizationForMetalsAndEnergy
Security, which paves the way for British Columbia to export new
sources of low carbon energy.

That announcement came 3 days after the #McLeodLake \#IndianBand &
\#MitsubishiPower announced they were working together to develop a $5
billion hydrogen plant on the Kerry Lake East reserve, 80 km north of
Prince George"

---

JAEA: "[22/09] The Government of the UK has identified High
Temperature Gas-cooled Reactors (HTGR) as the most promising candidate
for the use of nuclear energy for the decarbonization. The UK plans to
promote the Advanced Modular Reactor Research, Development and
Demonstration.. programme leading to the demonstration of HTGR by the
early 2030's.. In Japan, the Government has declared that it will
pursue technological development of hydrogen production using HTGR as
one of the focus areas in order to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050"

[[-]](https://www.jaea.go.jp/english/news/press/2022/090502/)

---

That sounds like they played dumb better, that's all

AP: "It appears both [Biden and Pence] turned over the records
quickly, without intent to conceal. That’s important because the
Justice Department historically looks for willfulness, or an intent to
mishandle government secrets, in deciding whether to bring criminal
charges"

---

CNBC: "New York overtakes Hong Kong as the most expensive city in the
world for expats, new survey shows"

---

A comparable plane using batteries is a laughable concept, it would
have sub-turtle speed and crash 10 minutes after take off.

---

CNN: "Frankfurt to Dubai in 90 minutes? Europe enters the hypersonic
plane race.. a European hypersonic startup is having a go, promising
enticing journey times such as Frankfurt to Sydney in 4 hours 15, or
Memphis to Dubai in 3 hours 30.

The Destinus concept is hydrogen-powered flight at five times the
speed of sound, cutting flight duration to less than a quarter of
current commercial air travel"

---

Both sides during TR election had nationalist parties in their
respective coalitions, such vote was a minor factor. Some nat guy won
5% in the first round but a famous leftist (in jail) could've had 10%
while "Mr. Kemal" Bay Kemal lost doing
[this bizness](baykemal1.jpg) didn't he?

---

H2 Central: "Clean-seas Has Announced a West Virginia Manufacturing
Facility to Convert Plastic Feedstock to Clean Fuels Products,
Including Hydrogen"

---

Reuters: "US SEC crackdown on Coinbase, Binance puts crypto exchanges
on notice'

---

Lychee looks tasty, Chinese plums..? Gotta get me some lychee

---

WION: "Millionaire fined a record $130,000 for speeding in Finland,
where penalties are based on income"

---

"@r000t@fosstodon.org

Gonna make a montage of all the reporters and outlets who shamed
Google Glass for privacy reasons, that are now singing Apple's praises
for making essentially the same product"

---

Politico: "Images are appearing online that allegedly show destroyed
Ukrainian tanks that presumably were taking part in the just-launched
counteroffensive... the images indicate that a mechanized war won’t be
all that easy for Ukraine and the Russians, for the moment, are having
some success repelling the counteroffensive"

----

The Guardian: "China reportedly reaches secret deal with Cuba to host
spy base on island"

---

