# Bankrupting Physics

Unzicker

I am not old enough to remember all the deaths the theory of
supersymmetry (SUSY) has died in the history of accelerator
experiments. Supersymmetry attempts to give a unified mathematical
description of elementary particles by postulating a collection of
mirror particles. The hypothetical twins are distinguished from the
known ones by their superheavy masses, and for that reason, remain
undetected so far in all particle colliders. The first big gravestone
was the DESY lab in Hamburg in 1978, where supersymmetry grossly
failed to predict the experimental outcome. But a really agonizing
year must have been 2012, when Scientific American published an
article in their May issue asking “Is Supersymmetry Dead?” and not the
slightest trace of supersymmetry could be found in the
long-sought-after Large Hadron Collider data at CERN.

Peter Woit commented in his blog *Not Even Wrong*, “The paradigm that
dominated the subject for the past 30 years has collapsed in the face
of experimental (non)evidence, threatening to take down the life’s
work of hundreds if not thousands of theorists.” However, the really
die-hard adherents argue that “not the whole parameter space” has been
checked yet, comparing the search for supersymmetry to a game in which
your friend assures you that a pea is hidden under one of the five
cups put upside down on a table. You have turned over four cups. Now
do you still trust that the pea will show up under the fifth?  Of
course...

The reason behind the supersymmetry hype is the ugly complication of
the standard model. With its arbitrary concepts, it leaves an
unpleasant aftertaste, and this is an inspiration to look out for a
more uniform, more beautiful theory, just like bleak industrial
suburbs foster a desire for palm-decorated paradises.

The standard models of cosmology and particle physics are ailing, but
theoretical physics overall is in a much worse shape. There has been
no real output at all in the past decades. Strings, inflation, and
multiverses have formed gigantic bubbles of speculation that can
barely hide their ridiculously empty content. It is likely that
theorists will aggressively defend their bogus fantasies for some time
yet. But the higher-dimensional rigmarole will eventually be
identified by the public and deflated. When the fantasies end in
smoke, physics will be left without any credible theory. It will have
lost its credibility...

Mass

The reason why the standard model cannot calculate mass is
stunningly simple. Whatever formula may calculate the mass of a
particle, it has to have the physical unit of a mass, which is
kilograms, and those kilograms have to come out of the formula, you
can't pull it out of your ass. The only way to do it is to find
combinations of the fundamental constants of Nature, otherwise you are
cheating. But there is no such combination, as every high school kid
can understand... There is just one caveat - you can't do it unless
you use the gravitational constant G, that is, you consider gravity in
your model. But particle physicists don’t do it because gravity is a
difficult business that goes above their minds. It’s outright lunatic
that they declare that calculating masses, alas, is impossible in the
standard model and at the same time deliberately disregard gravity
which would offer the only possibility to try it

