# Power Paste (Solid Magnesium Hydride)

[Link](https://www.electrive.com/2021/02/02/fraunhofer-develops-hydrogen-storage-paste/)

Researchers at the Fraunhofer Institute for Manufacturing Technology
and Advanced Materials IFAM in Dresden have developed a paste for
hydrogen storage. The institute is calling the mass 'power paste'.

The researchers also claim their paste to offer high energy densities
and be suitable for all vehicles from electric scooters to
cars. According to Fraunhofer IFAM, the power paste, based on the
solid magnesium hydride, should allow hydrogen to be chemically stored
at room temperature and ambient pressure and rereleased as
required. Since the power paste only decomposes above about 250
degrees Celsius, this works without any issues even if, for example, a
scooter equipped with the paste is left in the summer sun for hours.

The storage pasteâ€™s starting material is only magnesium in powder
form, which is a very common element. At 350 degrees Celsius and five
to six times atmospheric pressure, this is reacted with hydrogen to
form magnesium hydride. The power paste is then produced with ester
and metal salt.

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EtrzYmdWYAASk1-?format=png&name=small"/>

The power paste replaces the cylindrical pressure tank used in fuel
cell cars and buses. Therefore, the institute says that this solution
is suitable for hydrogen drives in smaller vehicles in cases where a
pressure tank would be difficult to implement.

According to the Fraunhofer researchers, the refuelling process is
straightforward. Instead of driving to a filling station, the scooter
driver changes a cartridge and fills tap water into a water tank. In
the vehicle itself, the paste is pressed out of the cartridge and
mixed with a precisely measured amount of water, depending on the
required power. This reaction produces gaseous hydrogen, which can
then be converted into electricity for the electric motor.

Only half of the hydrogen comes from the power paste, the other half
from the water in the reaction. 'The energy storage density of the
power paste is therefore enormous: it is much higher than that of a
700 bar pressure tank,' says Marcus Vogt, a scientist at Fraunhofer
IFAM. 'Compared to batteries, it even has ten times the energy storage
density.' The Fraunhofer scientists even say that the driver should
achieve a similar range with the power paste extrapolated to a car as
they would with the same amount of petrol, if not greater"


