# Vietnam

LBJ Biography, *Into the Quagmire*

John F. Kennedy, the new President, affirmed this commitment during a
period of rising Cold War tensions which compelled him, however
reluctantly, to expand it significantly. Kennedy entered the White
House at a crucial juncture in postwar affairs, punctuated by
nationalist upheaval and intense Sino-Soviet competition. As the
states of Africa and Asia emerged from European rule, China and Russia
curried their favor by championing “wars of liberation” from colonial
oppression. Interpreting these developments as a challenge to
America’s leadership, JFK responded vigorously, pledging the United
States to activism in the third world.  A series of international
crises during his first year intensified Kennedy’s concern for
maintaining a non-communist South Vietnam.

In 1961, JFK challenged Castro’s Cuba at the Bay of Pigs with
disastrous results; engaged Khrushchev at the stormy Vienna summit;
witnessed the construction of the Berlin Wall; and began sensitive
negotiations on the neutralization of Laos. Seeing himself on the
defensive, Kennedy determined to demonstrate his resolve by standing
firm in South Vietnam. ...

[After South Vietnamese leader Diem's repression] Washington began
distancing itself from Diem and preparing for a coup.  After several
false starts, that coup occurred on November 1, 1963. With the Kennedy
administration’s tacit consent, a military cabal deposed the regime,
abruptly killing both Diem and Nhu.

JFK’s own assassination followed three weeks later. But before his
death, America’s commitment to South Vietnam had entered a new and
troublesome period. For Diem’s overthrow—however predictable given his
peremptory rule—unleashed powerful and unpredictable forces of fateful
significance to U.S.-Vietnamese relations. The responsibility for this
development rested with John Kennedy; its consequences confronted his
successor, Lyndon Johnson. ...

<a name='lbj'/>

During his formative years, Johnson received little exposure to
foreign affairs. “When I was a boy,” he later recalled, “we never had
these issues of our relations with other nations so much. We didn’t
wake up with Vietnam and have Santo Domingo for lunch and the Congo
for dinner.”. LBJ focused his attention, quite naturally, on Texas
politics, which seemed far removed from international
concerns. Johnson utilized his mastery of state affairs to launch a
political career, first as assistant to south Texas Congressman
Richard Kleberg, then as state National Youth Administration director,
and finally as U.S. representative from central Texas.  LBJ arrived in
Washington as a new congressman just as Hitler’s armies prepared their
march across Europe. The western democracies’ belated response to
fascist aggression created a lasting impression on the young
Johnson. Like many of his generation, LBJ interpreted appeasement as a
dangerous seed yielding bitter fruit—a lesson Johnson carried
throughout his legislative career and into the White
House. “[E]verything I knew about history,” LBJ subsequently remarked,
“told me that if I got out of Vietnam ...  then I’d be doing exactly
what Chamberlain did [before] World War II. I’d be giving a big fat
reward to aggression"

