# Unity

Unity, "going bi" is always eluded to in US politics. After
calamities, pandemics, in a country composed of states, it is not that
off-kilter to pay some lip service to the concept. Of course the unity
of states doesnt imply political unity, but hey, it rhymes, good
TV. It's a feel-good word, like marshmallows, chicken soup, Sunday
morning.. School is out. Whatever...

Sometimes the use of the word is tactical, you mention unity, if the
other guy does not go for it, now he is the asshole. Small effect, but
maybe worth a try. Usually pols have no inclination to deliver unity
anyway, but blaming the other can be good PR cover for themselves not
doing anything.

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4w_bNqs0-XM?start=411&end=552" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

But the most obnoxious form of unity talk starts from the Washington
Consensus, post-politics mentality that emerged, a Frankenstein freak
of the post Berlin Wall, TINA world order. After the whole damn Berlin
Wall collapsed on their heads, Dems in abject fear started running
around, looked for a new place to go, lurched right, tried to outdo
Reps in their own game. Reps balked, and radicalized on 5G (Green,
Gays, Guns, God, Gender) to differentiate, so the Clinton years had
insane amt of drama. These issues were moral, ethical issues not
political, unresolvable, so intense fighting persisted, became
entrenched.

Now into this environment, in the eleventh inning steps in a certain
politican and asks for, you guessed it, unity, comity. It can sell..
"Im a uniter not a divider". But Dems are in no position to seek
unity, their leaving a major ideology unattended for years, and trying
to displace another is what caused the shitstorm to begin with.


