# University, An Owner's Manual 

Henry Rosovsky

Another critical virtue of academic life—I am thinking of tenured
professors at, say, America’s top fifty to one hundred institutions—is
the absence of a boss. A boss is someone who can tell you what to do,
and requires you to do it—an impairment of freedom. As a dean—i.e., as
an administrator—my boss was the president. I served at his pleasure;
he could and did give me orders. But as a professor, I recognized no
master save peer pressure, no threat except, perhaps, an unlikely
charge of moral turpitude. No profession guarantees its practitioners
such a combination of independence and security as university research
and teaching. Let me amplify this point.

In the early 1950s, the University of California was plunged into
grave controversy by the state’s insistence that all its employees
sign an anti-Communist loyalty oath. Those were the days of McCarthy
and the red scares. State and federal committees on un-American
activities stalked the land. There was opposition to the loyalty oaths
inside and outside the university, although in the end nearly everyone
signed. A few professors refused and were dismissed.

The most interesting refusal was tendered by Professor
E. K. Kantorowicz, a famous medieval historian and refugee from
Hitler’s Germany. He did not particularly object to a loyalty oath
requirement—I am not suggesting that he approved it. Rather, he had a
deeper objection: he did not wish under any circumstances to be
classified as an employee of the state of California...

The distinction held by Kantorowicz is most valuable. We professors
have the income of civil servants but the freedom of artists. This
imposes certain obligations. The formal duties imposed by our
institutions are minimal, anywhere between six and twelve hours in the
classroom per week during eight months of the year. Yet most of us
work long hours and spend many evenings at our desks or in our
laboratories. We do not tell students that this is our day off, that
they must seek someone else with whom to discuss their problems. We do
practice our profession as a calling, considering ourselves not
employees but shareholders of the university: a group of
owners. “Share values” are determined by the quality of management and
the product. We seek to keep those values as high as possible. None of
this is to deny that we very much enjoy the calling, and believe that
we are engaged in activities of high social value... 

Both professors and students have in their possession uninterrupted
time. Time to write, read, think, dream—and to waste. A dean’s
schedule—any administrator’s schedule—could not be more different...

As a group, academics are intolerant and critical. In their work, they
are used to giving and receiving strong criticism.  Precision of
thought and expression is a quality that elicits admiration. Not
surprisingly, professors have a certain contempt for
politicians—compromisers, talkers, windbags. I do not believe that
many deans share these simple-minded views. Over the years, I have
developed profound sympathy especially for politicians attempting to
survive in a democracy... 

Governance is another area in which American universities are
unusual...  The American system is unitary: ultimately one person—a
president—is in charge. Typically, educational policy—curriculum,
nature of degrees, selection of faculty, admissions, etc.—is initiated
by or delegated to academics. But budgets, management of endowment,
decisions on new programs, long-range plans, and similar matters are
in the hands of a hierarchy headed by a president who is responsible
to a board of trustees. Two points are noteworthy in this
system. First, chairmen, deans, provosts, and similar levels of senior
and middle management are appointed—not elected—and they can be
dismissed. This is crucial because academic elections tend to result
in weak leadership. What professors in their right minds would vote
for a dean advocating cuts in their subjects? Secondly, relatively
independent trustees serve both public and private schools, giving
considerable protection from political interference even to state
universities. We have a system of governance that permits
non-consensual and unpopular decisions to be made when necessary. We
have learned that not everything is improved by making it more
democratic.
