# Unzicker

Bankrupting Physics

I am not old enough to remember all the deaths the theory of
supersymmetry (SUSY) has died in the history of accelerator
experiments. Supersymmetry attempts to give a unified mathematical
description of elementary particles by postulating a collection of
mirror particles. The hypothetical twins are distinguished from the
known ones by their superheavy masses, and for that reason, remain
undetected so far in all particle colliders. The first big gravestone
was the DESY lab in Hamburg in 1978, where supersymmetry grossly
failed to predict the experimental outcome. But a really agonizing
year must have been 2012, when Scientific American published an
article in their May issue asking “Is Supersymmetry Dead?” and not the
slightest trace of supersymmetry could be found in the
long-sought-after Large Hadron Collider data at CERN.

Peter Woit commented in his blog *Not Even Wrong*, “The paradigm that
dominated the subject for the past 30 years has collapsed in the face
of experimental (non)evidence, threatening to take down the life’s
work of hundreds if not thousands of theorists.” However, the really
die-hard adherents argue that “not the whole parameter space” has been
checked yet, comparing the search for supersymmetry to a game in which
your friend assures you that a pea is hidden under one of the five
cups put upside down on a table. You have turned over four cups. Now
do you still trust that the pea will show up under the fifth?  Of
course...

The reason behind the supersymmetry hype is the ugly complication of
the standard model. With its arbitrary concepts, it leaves an
unpleasant aftertaste, and this is an inspiration to look out for a
more uniform, more beautiful theory, just like bleak industrial
suburbs foster a desire for palm-decorated paradises.

The standard models of cosmology and particle physics are ailing, but
theoretical physics overall is in a much worse shape. There has been
no real output at all in the past decades. Strings, inflation, and
multiverses have formed gigantic bubbles of speculation that can
barely hide their ridiculously empty content. It is likely that
theorists will aggressively defend their bogus fantasies for some time
yet. But the higher-dimensional rigmarole will eventually be
identified by the public and deflated. When the fantasies end in
smoke, physics will be left without any credible theory. It will have
lost its credibility...

Mass

The reason why the standard model cannot calculate mass is
stunningly simple. Whatever formula may calculate the mass of a
particle, it has to have the physical unit of a mass, which is
kilograms, and those kilograms have to come out of the formula, you
can't pull it out of your ass. The only way to do it is to find
combinations of the fundamental constants of Nature, otherwise you are
cheating. But there is no such combination, as every high school kid
can understand... There is just one caveat - you can't do it unless
you use the gravitational constant G, that is, you consider gravity in
your model. But particle physicists don’t do it because gravity is a
difficult business that goes above their minds. It’s outright lunatic
that they declare that calculating masses, alas, is impossible in the
standard model and at the same time deliberately disregard gravity
which would offer the only possibility to try it

Video

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0NOaYu-AxsI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

"I don't know how many of you believe that the Higgs boson was the
discovery of the century but what is sure that Einstein, Dirac, or
Schrodinger would have considered this discovery as ridiculous they
would never have believed that such a model with so many unexplained
parameters reflecting anything fundamental.

So I'm going to argue that particle physics as practice since 1930 is
a futile enterprise in its entirety. ...

First of all good physics is simple, and the true revolutions in
physics always simplify the laws of nature. Maxwell's electrodynamics
was a revolution because the electrodynamic constants and the speed of
light were condensed in one formula, eliminating one constant of
nature.  So did the Planck constant h simplify the laws of nature and
Newton's Theory of Gravitation condensed dozens of unexplained
parameters into one gravitational constant.

[Today's] particle physics is going the other way around. It produced
[too many free] parameters"

More Unzic comments; Robert Dicke rediscovered relativity with
corrections (1957), speed of light should not be constant.

Knowledge

Even scientists themselves take lots of knowledge as given. The danger
here is you can pile shit upon shit until stuck or the whole thing
collapsing on itself.

<iframe width="240"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eREDoqCD4Ps?start=5211&end=5379" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<a name='quaternions'></a>

New Direction

The new direction of physics can involve quaternions. From [The Mathematical Reality Why Space and Time are an Illusion](https://www.amazon.com/Mathematical-Reality-Space-Time-Illusion/dp/B0849ZXQB1):
"As early as the 1930s, the Dutch physicist and close friend of
Einstein, Paul Ehrenfest, wondered why the wave functions for matter
(complex numbers) and light (vector fields) were mathematically so
different. The importance of this profound question is still
underestimated today. If one follows the mission to explain natural
phenomena in a unified picture, light and matter must be contained in
a single formalism. This means that there has to be a mathematical
object that on the one hand, must be a little more complicated than
vectors and complex numbers, but on the other hand must incorporate
their properties...

Hamilton..  one of the most brilliant mathematicians of all time
.. started to study complex numbers. If it was possible to define a
multiplication in two dimensions in such an amazing way, was it also
possible in three dimensions?... On 16 October 1843, while walking
along the Royal Canal in Dublin, Hamilton finally came up with the
answer. In three dimensions it was indeed impossible; but at that
moment, he realized that the tricky multiplication of complex numbers
could be transferred to a four-dimensional number system called
quaternions that had three imaginary units $i$, $j$, $k$ instead of
just one $i$. Whether Hamilton could already have imagined the
fascinating rotations that occur in this number system, we do not
know. In any case, overjoyed at his idea, he carved the constituting
equations into a stone of a nearby bridge..

$$
i^2 = k^2 = j^2 = i \cdot j \cdot k = -1
$$

... If we come back to the philosophical question of what mathematical
structure could potentially describe all physical phenomena,
quaternions are a strikingly simple possibility. Since they contain
both complex numbers and conventional vectors as a subset,
quaternions, in principle, can represent all the number systems
physicists have used in their description of the elementary phenomena
light and matter"

[Higgs](https://youtu.be/0NOaYu-AxsI?t=6)

I don't know how many of you believe that the Higgs boson was the
discovery of the century but what is sure that Einstein, Dirac, or
Schrodinger would have considered this discovery as ridiculous they
would never have believed that such a model with so many unexplained
parameters reflecting anything fundamental.

So I'm going to argue that particle physics as practice since 1930 is
a futile enterprise in its entirety. ...

First of all good physics is simple, and the true revolutions in
physics always simplify the laws of nature. Maxwell's electrodynamics
was a revolution because the electrodynamic constants and the speed of
light were condensed in one formula, eliminating one constant of
nature.  So did the Planck constant h simplify the laws of nature and
Newton's Theory of Gravitation condensed dozens of unexplained
parameters into one gravitational constant.

[Today's] particle physics is going the other way around. It produced
[too many free] parameters.

