# Vietnam

[George Friedman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkSk7hKudpA)

The United States went to war in Vietnam for multiple reasons but the
basic reason was Charles De Gaulle. The American strategy at the time
was to contain the Soviet Union with a string of alliances swinging
from Norway all the way through [Vietnam], and blocked them through
expanding [alliances]. Charles de Gaulle came along and said "you
can't trust the americans because if they ever attacked the Americans
wouldn't come ...  you you're going to be left alone we have to form
our own NATO independent of the United States". During the Vietnam War
there's a word that became incredibly important *credibility*.
Credibility meant that how credible were the American guarantees to
this all-important structure of containment, how credible was it that
we would come to Germany's aid, or Japan's aid with everything we had,
if they were a war. And a terrible fear that time was that these
people would lose confidence in us. So part of the reason we went to
Vietnam had nothing to do with Vietnam the fear was that if we didn't
go to Vietnam our credibility with our other allies would be gone and
the entire American strategy will collapse on that basis. There was no
expectation [we would end up with] 50,000 dead, on that basis the
expectation was that we would go into a small police action we may win
it, we may lose it, but the Germans would know that our guarantee
means something.

LBJ Biography, *Into the Quagmire*

John F. Kennedy, the new President, affirmed this commitment during a
period of rising Cold War tensions which compelled him, however
reluctantly, to expand it significantly. Kennedy entered the White
House at a crucial juncture in postwar affairs, punctuated by
nationalist upheaval and intense Sino-Soviet competition. As the
states of Africa and Asia emerged from European rule, China and Russia
curried their favor by championing “wars of liberation” from colonial
oppression. Interpreting these developments as a challenge to
America’s leadership, JFK responded vigorously, pledging the United
States to activism in the third world.  A series of international
crises during his first year intensified Kennedy’s concern for
maintaining a non-communist South Vietnam.

In 1961, JFK challenged Castro’s Cuba at the Bay of Pigs with
disastrous results; engaged Khrushchev at the stormy Vienna summit;
witnessed the construction of the Berlin Wall; and began sensitive
negotiations on the neutralization of Laos. Seeing himself on the
defensive, Kennedy determined to demonstrate his resolve by standing
firm in South Vietnam. ...

[After South Vietnamese leader Diem's repression] Washington began
distancing itself from Diem and preparing for a coup.  After several
false starts, that coup occurred on November 1, 1963. With the Kennedy
administration’s tacit consent, a military cabal deposed the regime,
abruptly killing both Diem and Nhu.

JFK’s own assassination followed three weeks later. But before his
death, America’s commitment to South Vietnam had entered a new and
troublesome period. For Diem’s overthrow—however predictable given his
peremptory rule—unleashed powerful and unpredictable forces of fateful
significance to U.S.-Vietnamese relations. The responsibility for this
development rested with John Kennedy; its consequences confronted his
successor, Lyndon Johnson. ...

<a name='lbj'/>

During his formative years, Johnson received little exposure to
foreign affairs. “When I was a boy,” he later recalled, “we never had
these issues of our relations with other nations so much. We didn’t
wake up with Vietnam and have Santo Domingo for lunch and the Congo
for dinner.”. LBJ focused his attention, quite naturally, on Texas
politics, which seemed far removed from international
concerns. Johnson utilized his mastery of state affairs to launch a
political career, first as assistant to south Texas Congressman
Richard Kleberg, then as state National Youth Administration director,
and finally as U.S. representative from central Texas.  LBJ arrived in
Washington as a new congressman just as Hitler’s armies prepared their
march across Europe. The western democracies’ belated response to
fascist aggression created a lasting impression on the young
Johnson. Like many of his generation, LBJ interpreted appeasement as a
dangerous seed yielding bitter fruit—a lesson Johnson carried
throughout his legislative career and into the White
House. “[E]verything I knew about history,” LBJ subsequently remarked,
“told me that if I got out of Vietnam ...  then I’d be doing exactly
what Chamberlain did [before] World War II. I’d be giving a big fat
reward to aggression"

