# Week 25

Barron's: "DR Congo weighs legal move against Apple in mining
dispute.. The government of the Democratic Republic of Congo is
studying legal action against Apple in France and the United States,
after accusing the US tech giant of using “illegally exploited”
minerals, its lawyers said Thursday"

---

The National News: "Broaden Energy invests $272m to set up hydrogen
equipment plant in Abu Dhabi"

---

"Everfuel proposes 2-GW green H2 project in Denmark"

---

"@QasimRashid@mastodon.social

Me: Billionaire philanthropy is PR. Tax billionaires

Troll: Lol you trust Govt to spend our money?

Me: Yes the Govt elected by We the People, who is accountable, & can be voted out

Troll: Govt is bought

Me: By who?

Troll: By billionai—...

Me: ...

Troll: Ok Tax billionaires"

---

ABC Australia: "Too many children with long COVID are suffering in
silence. Their greatest challenge? The myth that the virus is
'harmless' for kids"

---

Standards. Free, Open Source. Files. Directories. Simple File Servers.
It's a thing.

---

Most modern web servers allow this, can skip ahead to specific
location in a file. Any OS worth its salt can do that for its local
file access, RFC 9110 simply provides a web interface.

---

There was a massive binary file sitting on a simple file server
(terrain data). Downloading it all to client is no go. The alternative
u compute direct index access and read specific bytes only, and do
this via 100+ micro requests, then combine data on the client. No need
to dload, best part no need for an app server - a whole seperate
service responding to complex requests. 

---

I finally got to use the Web standard RFC 9110 -range requests- in a
serious app.

---

CNBC: "China and India lead the charge as digital wallets overtake
cash and cards in Asia"

---

Second installation, so so.. the third, really bad. Check [this out](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/112/613/517/112/417/913/original/aaf7082098b51d02.jpg).
F-ing Van Wilders in the cast... How could it not suck? Where was
the Volkswagen hat?

---

The first *Blade* was great, Wesley Snipes was fantastic in the role.

---

It don't matter if you are black or white, you'll get cucked all the
same. Woke knows no bounds.

---

Another Marvel screw up. The chatter has it the studio wants Woke, but
Ali is resisting.

Kotaku: "Marvel’s upcoming *Blade* movie is back in the news and yet
again it isn’t for good reasons. Yann Demange (‘71 and *Lovecraft
Country*) has left the project as director, which marks the second
director to exit the film in three years. This is the latest setback
for the project, which was announced in 2019 with much anticipation as
it would see Oscar winner Mahershala Ali take on the role"

---

"@skyfaller@jawns.club

.. Since LLMs have also infected print books and scientific journals
with misinfo, it won't just be the effective end of the Web. It will
be the end of all sources that you don't have a personal connection
with. Finding new info will require finding a human who can tell you
through real- world experience whether that mushroom foraging guide is
dangerous nonsense"

---

Rigzone: "Peoples, an essential utilities company, is spearheading a
demonstration project to produce zero-emission hydrogen energy at
scale. The project, underway in Western Pennsylvania, is a joint
undertaking by Peoples, H Quest and the University of Pittsburgh’s
Swanson School of Engineering, Peoples said in a statement. [The
company] installed one of H Quest’s proprietary microwave pyrolysis
units at its training center in McKeesport to transform natural gas
into pure hydrogen (H2) without CO2 emissions. The process creates
what is often referred to as turquoise hydrogen"

<img width='340' src='https://images.rigzone.com/images/news/articles/Pilot-Project-Targets-Production-of-ZeroEmission-Hydrogen-177076-582x327.webp'/> 

---

"@nemeciii@mastodon.social

Megaconstellations like Starlink will increase atmospheric aluminum
oxide amounts to 646% over natural levels ( +360 metric tons / year ).

It will take up to 30 years for the aluminum oxides to drift down to
stratospheric altitudes, where 90% of Earth's ozone is located.

Once there aluminum oxide will act as a catalyst with chlorine harming
the ozone layer"

---

Deihl: "H.R. 8070, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for
fiscal year 2025 features the usual increase in “defense” spending to
a record $883.7 billion.. 883.7 billion works out to about 2600, for
each one of us Americans spreading corporatocracy far and wide, shell
by shell, proxy war by proxy war."

---

\#Owens \#Gray

[[-]](https://youtu.be/kngK3gX8X-M)

---

Energy Live News: "Wales & West Utilities (WWU) has launched a study,
funded by Ofgem, to investigate how the UK's existing gas network can
be adapted for hydrogen refuelling stations"

---

Nick Bano: "Worth remembering that [UK] ‘intentional homelessness’ was
invented to prevent queue-jumping for council flats.. Things have
degraded, and the problem it was designed to solve is now
unimaginable. It’s a relic in a country with world-beating
homelessness statistics"

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 06/06 - 06/15

[[-]](ukrdata/map22-ext.html)

---

Tony Blink Blink 737 must have overruled it. This smells like the
doing of the surface state... Military-industrial-donor complex
control of high-levels of goverment on display. The depths are fine,
the top is corrupted, amoral, mercantile.

The Guardian: "The state department falsified a report earlier this
month to absolve Israel of responsibility for blocking humanitarian
aid flows into Gaza, overruling the advice of its own experts,
according to a former senior US official who resigned this week.

Stacy Gilbert left her post as senior civil military adviser in the
state department’s bureau of population, refugees and migration, on
Tuesday. She had been one of the department’s subject matter experts
who drafted the report mandated under national security memorandum 20
(NSM-20) and published on 10 May...

Even more controversially, the report said the state department did
not 'currently assess that the Israeli government is prohibiting or
otherwise restricting the transport or delivery of US humanitarian
assistance' in Gaza. It was a high-stakes judgment because under a
clause in the Foreign Assistance Act, the US would be obliged to cut
arms sales and security assistance to any country found to have
blocked delivery of US aid"

---
