# Week 9

H2 Fuel News: "GenH2 Unveils Groundbreaking Liquid Hydrogen Technology
in Milestone UAV Flight"

---

FDR took the biggest step against gold, way before Nixon. Progressive
president, time of crisis, government could not tie its own hands by
basing its dealings on some stupid rare metal, makes sense.

---

History.com: "On June 5, 1933, the United States went off the gold
standard, a monetary system in which currency is backed by gold, when
Congress enacted a joint resolution nullifying the right of creditors
to demand payment in gold...

On April 5, 1933, Roosevelt ordered all gold coins and gold
certificates in denominations of more than $100 turned in for other
money. It required all persons to deliver all gold coin, gold bullion
and gold certificates owned by them to the Federal Reserve by May 1
for the set price of 20.67 dollars per ounce...

In 1934, the government price of gold was increased to $35 per ounce,
effectively increasing the gold on the Federal Reserve’s balance
sheets by 69 percent...

The government held the $35 per ounce price until August 15, 1971,
when President Richard Nixon announced that the United States would no
longer convert dollars to gold at a fixed value, thus completely
abandoning the gold standard"

---

Mapping time, there is some data out there for the Sudan civil
war. Frontline between RSF/SAF below. The borders delineate RSF
controlled territory.

[[-]](mbl/2024/sdndata/map1.html)

---

I see... Egypt supplies drones to them, no?

Sudan War Monitor: "Sudan army breaks Omdurman siege"

---

"@laptopkitten@kitty.social

British people like Doctor Who because it fulfills their fantasy of
getting to go on adventures. Americans like Doctor Who because it
fulfills their fantasy of having a doctor"

---

"@aphyr@woof.group

I know id.me is supposed to make tax filing more secure but I do not
have the fucking patience for a login system that requires username,
password, 2FA TOTP, and *then* has the gall to ask me to fill out a
giant form with all my personal information and join a queue to video
chat with someone to show them my ID docs???

what the fuck"

---

\#Ronson \#CultureWar

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/984/661/679/214/981/original/3b53db7de50ea0d8.jpeg)

---

Jon Ronson: "Culture wars are so often.. opium of the masses, people
scream at each other about trans rights while the rich get richer"

---

Herman, *Degraded Capability*: "[2000] Nato’s fiftieth birthday
celebration was held in Washington on 23-25 April 1999. The bombing of
Yugoslavia had been going on for a month. The outcome was still
uncertain, but dissension was muted and triumphalism was the
prescribed tone. Thanks to Kosovo, Nato had asserted its new role as a
‘humanitarian’ strike force unlimited by geographical boundaries or
provisions of international law.

No humanitarian mission had been necessary to persuade major US
private corporations to put up the $8 million to pay for the birthday
party, or to incite a dozen chief executive officers of major Pentagon
contractors to pay 250,000 each to serve as official
sponsors. Corporate America was well aware of the importance of Nato
as a source of long-term, guaranteed profits. US Congressmen had been
heavily lobbied by a special ‘US Committee to Expand Nato’, presided
over by Lockheed’s chief executive. No wonder: Nato’s expansion will
require the Central Eastern European countries to strain their budgets
in order to procure US military equipment. Poland, for instance, is
expected to buy 100-150 newfighter planes, which could be either the
Lockheed F-16 (20 million) or the Boeing F-18 (40—60 million dollars
each)"

---

Businesswire: "Graforce is setting new standards in hydrogen
production and carbon dioxide removal with its cross-cutting plasma
technology (Plasmalysis). By harnessing the plasma catalytic effect, a
unique property of ionized plasma, this technology significantly
enhances chemical reactions' efficiency and reduces renewable power
consumption by 80% compared to conventional hydrogen production
methods. Plasmalysis splits natural gas and biogas into hydrogen and
solid carbon, and converts ammonia or NH4-liquids into hydrogen and
nitrogen"

---

"The Adani Group.. is reportedly engaged in advanced discussions with
sovereign funds in West Asia to secure up to $2.6 billion for its
airport expansion and green hydrogen initiatives"

---

Times of Israel: "Israel livid as Brazil’s Lula says Israel like
‘Hitler,’ committing genocide in Gaza"

---

Korea JoongAnd Daily: "Hyundai to invest $1.1 billion in Brazil for hydrogen shift"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/088/914/901/original/421b8f983b077a5d.jpg'/> 

---

Oil Price: "Last month, Toyota chair Akio Toyoda said he thinks the
share of battery cars on the global market will peak at 30%, with the
remaining 70% taken up by hydrogen and internal combustion
engines. BMW chief executive officer Oliver Zipse is similarly bullish
about the technology as one component of a cleaner transportation
future"

---

Rescue scenarios, for a person, a small group, is becoming a thing in
recent action movie stories.. The approach keeps most of the politics
out, the story becomes more about simpler things - people, comrades,
friends, civilians in need.. How many movies can you make about "big
bad government about to get you". I for one am tired of that take. I
welcome this change.

---

"@falcennial@mastodon.social

I think curiosity more likely informed the cat"

---

Steve Seagulls - Thunderstruck \#music

[[-]](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=0Gg9kU8Mjpo)

---

H2 Central: "Renewable hydrogen production in Spain will be around 2.5
million tonnes per year in 2030, according to the average scenario
estimated by Enagás based on data collected from companies interested
in participating in hydrogen transport infrastructure. The company has
registered a total of 650 projects, 65% of which are for production,
20% for consumption and the remaining 15% for marketing. Two hundred
and six companies participated in the “call of interest” announced by
Enagás in the last quarter of 2023"

---

Investing in foreign lands is supposed to be riskier.. Don't be a
whiny wanker... aren't you the fearless, adventurer enterpreneur? Take
the risk.

"Ew but how can corporations work in foreign lands without 'protection'"

---

Matt Kennard's *Silent Coup* describes this system in detail. ISDS can
be used for anything that rankles global corps, one government was
taken to court for raising the minimum wage.

---

The Guardian: ‘Litigation terrorism’: the obscure tool that
corporations are using against green laws.. a US mining firm sued
Mexico for billions – for trying to protect its own seabed.. What do
you get if you cross the planet’s richest 1%, a global legal system
adapted to their investment whims, and the chance to squeeze billions
from governments? The answer is 'Investor-State Dispute Settlements',
or ISDS, alternatively dubbed 'litigation terrorism' by Joseph
Stiglitz.. ISDS is a corporate tribunal system, where a panel of
unelected lawyers decides whether a company is owed compensation if
the actions of national governments leave its assets 'stranded'.

In hearings, which are often held behind closed doors, ISDS documents,
claims, awards, settlements – even the content of cases – need not be
made public, regardless of any public-interest considerations. Last
week the Guardian revealed how Odyssey Marine Exploration, a US-based
subsea mineral extraction company, was using an ISDS panel to sue
Mexico for $2.36bn (£1.87bn) after the government moved to prevent it
dredging off the Pacific coast"

---

"@fkamiah17@toot.wales

Remember the weeks of coverage and outrage when Nôtre Dame burned
down? Just a few which have been destroyed during the [ISR] genocide.

Great Omari Mosque - 2,500 years old

Qasr al-Basha - 800 years old

Church of St. Porphyrius - 1,600 years old

Hammam al-Sammara - circa 1,000 years old"

---

NYT: "Ukraine’s Deepening Fog of War.. Two years after Russia’s
full-scale invasion, Ukrainian leaders are seeking a path forward in
the face of ferocious assaults and daunting unknowns"

---

02/17 - 02/25, Russia took Robotyne back. They moved past Avdiivka
nearing Orlivka. Also approaching Ivanivska, major gains.. Looking bad
for Ukraine in every direction.

[[-]](ukrdata/map7.html)

---

CNBC: "Russia was ridiculed at the start of the war. Two years on, it
has reasons to be confident"

---

Butler: "[from a speech before the American Legion which made the
papers]. I spent thirty-three years and four months in active military
service, and during that period I spent most of my time being a
high-class muscle man for Big Business, for Wall Street and the
bankers. In short, I was a racketeer, a gangster for capitalism. I
helped make Honduras right for the American fruit companies in 1903. I
helped purify Nicaragua for the International Banking House of Brown
Brothers in 1902–1912. I helped make Mexico and especially Tampico
safe for American oil interests in 1914. I brought light to the
Dominican Republic for the American sugar interests in 1916. I helped
make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City Bank boys to
collect revenues in. I helped in the raping of half a dozen Central
American republics for the benefit of Wall Street. In China in 1927 I
helped see to it that Standard Oil went on its way unmolested. Looking
back on it, I might have given Al Capone a few hints. The best he
could do was to operate his racket in three districts. I operated on
three continents"

---

Butler is one of the most decorated soldiers of US Army. He commanded
a Marine Expeditionary Force during the late 1920s, named a major
general later. He is one of the few people who have been twice awarded
the Medal of Honor, received the Marine Corps Brevet Medal, the
highest Marine decoration at the time for officers. He figured out
what was going on however, wrote about it. His book *War Is a Racket*
was republished recently, its intro written by Jesse Ventura.

---

General Smedley D. Butler: "[1930] There are only two things we should
fight for. One is the defense of our homes and the other is the Bill
of Rights. War for any other reason is simply a racket"

---

ProPublica: "The Rising Cost of the Oil Industry’s Slow
Death.. Unplugged oil and gas wells accelerate climate change.. Until
wells are properly plugged, many leak oil and brine onto farmland and
into waterways and emit toxic and explosive gasses, rendering
redevelopment impossible"

---

"@evacide@hachyderm.io

Did I mention that the data broker industry must be destroyed? Because
yeah"

---

Al-Monitor: "Shipping insurance rates soar on Red Sea missile attacks"

---

F24: "France under pressure to suspend military sales to Israel as war
in Gaza grinds on"

---
