# Week 23

In a historic first for Europe, green hydrogen producer Lhyfe has
signed a memorandum of understanding with major stainless steel
company Ugitech to create a green hydrogen production facility at
Ugitech's plant in the French Alps.

This pioneering partnership aims to replace dirty pollution with clean
hydrogen in steel manufacturing, according to Renewable Energy
Magazine.

<img width='340' src='https://www.thecooldown.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/image-276.jpg?w=340'/> 

Under the agreement, Lhyfe will install a green hydrogen production
unit capable of generating around 13 tons per day at Ugitech's site in
Ugine, France. The locally produced hydrogen will power the steel
plant's furnaces and heating equipment, with excess supply made
available to fuel clean transportation in the region.

---

While we are at it: Web Tetris 

[[-]](https://muratk5n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2024/06/tetris-ext.html)

---

Game HTML gets embedded inside an `<iframe>`, our articles are in
markdown but the page transformer ignores nested HTML anyway, then
compile doc as usual, voila, game runs within site's look and feel.

---

Javascript code runs on user's browser, I am sending the viewer code
to run on their browser, they execute the code on their own CPU, no
server required (except serving the initial files to run).

---

Web Doom (via Javascript), hosting it on my blog. Code is 13 kb, [free and open](https://github.com/carlini/js13k2019-yet-another-doom-clone).

[[-]](https://muratk5n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2024/06/doom-ext.html)

---

"@Victor@spore.social

Japan’s push to make all research open access is taking shape. Japan
will start allocating the ¥10 billion it promised to spend on
institutional repositories to make the nation’s science free to
read" via Nature

---

It's only fair we do the US version too.

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/112/540/105/523/747/494/original/920c7f70c0ee5870.webp)

---

Good one.. Very funny.. \#Map \#Cartoon

via @unknow@mastodon.bida.im

[[-]](https://mastodon.bida.im/system/media_attachments/files/112/537/961/657/421/936/original/34447b2c8aa12831.png)

---

US consumer is in "thoughts and prayers" territory. 

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

If you're wondering what the CISA and DHS take on Recall is, they both
no commented to press"

---

Silicon Valley, Big Tech creates fluff, bullshit products, vapourware
all the time. But the big daddy of them all is still the MIC. They've
been at this for over half a century. They are good at it.

---

The private, revolving-door military-industrial-donor-complex has it
wired so good, sometimes they don't even have to deliver a functioning
product to make money.. A promise, a mere dream of a product will
do. See the example of XM2001 Crusader mobile cannon, project greenlit
in 1995 (Clinton admin), canceled after $7 billion, they delivered
nothing. Zilch. The military leaders pushing such systems are
promoted, not punished, and likely moved on to cushy private sector
jobs. The corporate press saw none of this as they were heavily
focused on more pressing issues such as "gays in the military".

---

Firstpost: "Germany Says Netanyahu Will be Arrested if He Sets Foot in
Country"

---

Historian William Dalrymple: "Has the BBC outsourced its coverage of
the Rafah [sic] to the Israeli embassy?  When 45 people have just been
hideously burned alive, how is that not a bloodbath, @BBCNEWS? Would
you use that language if say, the bomb had dropped instead on Portland
Place [the home of the BBC]?" via @Andii@mas.to

---

F24: "Iran's hardline ex-president Ahmadinejad registers candidacy for
snap presidential poll"

---

Green Car Congress: "Hanwha Aerospace and Hanwha Ocean.. will jointly
develop hydrogen fuel cells for ships as part of a government-led
green energy project"

---

Popular Mechanics: "In the quest for vehicle fuel sources, Korea has
taken the lead on crafting a combustion engine that runs on
hydrogen. But it isn’t just Korea’s Kia and Hyundai — which have
teamed to create a hydrogen combustion engine—moving forward on the
concept. Volvo is now also planning on the design.

<img width='200' src='https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-prod/images/internal-combustion-engine-royalty-free-image-1716945368.jpg?crop=0.7xw:1xh;center,top&resize=640:*'/> 

The technology is virtually already in place for hydrogen combustion
engines, and both the driving ranges and refilling times are similar
to that of traditional gasoline-powered combustion engines"

---

"Overselling AI"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LIgCgq9K1Yc?t=472)

---

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

Here’s a video of two MSFT employees gaining access to the Recall
database folder - with SQLite database right there. Watch their
hacking skills. (You don’t need to go this length as an attacker,
either). Cc @riskybusiness@infosec.exchange. I’m not being hyperbolic
when I say this is the dumbest cybersecurity move in a decade. Good
luck to my parents safely using their PC"

[[-]](https://cyberplace.social/@GossiTheDog/112535509953161486)

---

\#WastefulCompute

[[-]](https://cdn.masto.host/awscommunitysocial/media_attachments/files/112/531/053/501/305/568/small/f2e09a35edb78b7b.jpeg)

---

\#GOOG \#Search \#ChatParrots

[[-]](https://youtu.be/yL1d3n-BNuE?t=613)

---

There is no strategy.. it's bunch of money grubbing muckmuckers trying
to maximize their short-term gain at the expense of strategy, as in,
what is good for the citizens, country in the long term.

---

Israel is needed for the private complex; their very presence is the
instigator of chaos, and chaos = profits. The shit stirred up in Syria
alone (an Israel enemy) was a massive moneymaker for the MIC, and it's
not just about weapons sent to Israel. Israel can sell US military
equipment, with US' knowledge, to countries to which the U.S. is
restricted by law from selling, they act as the middleman. A vast
military deployment is possible / is justified by Israel's presence
and US' "protection" of it. 

---

Just like Israel is not 'the tail wagging the dog' when it comes to US
foreign policy, Russiagate was not completely abt helping Dems save
face for their disastrous 2016 loss either. Russiagate was a suitable
line of attack precisely bcz it forced the Trump admin to be colder
towards Russia. With all the "Putin puppet" talk going on the new
admin had to act hawkish against them, and this was RG's key
feature. As far as the military-industrial-complex, revolving-door
private-owned surface-state is concerned, if Russia cannot be
plundered by American oligarchs, they have to be villified, so NATO is
always front in center in the relation and MIC can sell weapons within
its specs. Russiagate performed this function brilliantly as well as
checking other boxes, blaming a foreign power so econ ineq is not
discussed, attempting to salvage the Clinton legacy (who is the prime
shitlib, econ-right social-left extraordinaire, fake left, poser, and
a dumbass).

---

WaPo: "Russian jamming leaves some high-tech U.S. weapons ineffective
in Ukraine..  Confidential Ukrainian assessments obtained by The
Washington Post show how accuracy rates of some Western weapons fell
after Russian jamming disrupted guidance systems.

---

JDAM-ER, Storm Shadow, Scalp are all jammed. Himars hit rate is now
between 50-70%, Excalibur an embarrassing 6%. Up and down links of the
UA drones are also jammed \#AustriaMil

---

F24: "Hamas says Israel's Gaza ceasefire plan 'positive'"

---

"@ridicol@mastodon.social

Slovenia raises the Palestinian flag today alongside its own flag and
the flag of the European Union on the government building in the
capital, Ljubljana, following its official recognition of the State of
Palestine as an independent state"

---

Al Monitor: "UNRWA chief says Israel 'must stop its campaign' against agency"

---

Arab News: "Belgium’s Ghent University severs ties with all Israeli
universities"

---

Arab News: "France bans Israel firms from upcoming defense fair"

----

F24: "Israel far-right ministers threaten to quit if Biden ceasfire
plan goes ahead.. Two far-right Israeli ministers threatened on
Saturday to quit Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyhau's government if he
goes ahead with a hostage release deal outlined by US President Joe
Biden"

---

