# Week 50

Chemical Analyst: "South Korea to Build the World's Largest Hydrogen
Fuel Cell Power Plant in Gyeongju"

---

Politico: "In Supreme Court battle over transgender rights,
conservatives look to an unlikely ally: Europe.. 'Systematic reviews
by national health authorities in Sweden, the United Kingdom, Finland,
and Norway have all concluded that the harms associated with these
interventions are significant, and the long-term benefits are
unproven,' Tennessee Attorney General Jonathan Skrmetti wrote in
defense of the state’s ban on transition-related medical care for
minors"

---

"@CedarTea@social.coop

Everywhere I look:

Media, politicians, and police: 'This sort of criminal behaviour is a
signifier of the deep rot at the heart of the civility of our politics
and it must be cracked down on with law and order.'

Normal folks: 'Oh, so it's a crime to kill him but not for him to kill
my aunt? Eat my entire ass'"

---

"@Laukidh@infosec.exchange

I miss when search engines looked for the words you typed"

---

Increased enterpreneurship doesn't spur growth. Entrepreneurship is 10
times more in US than in the EU, but growth in US is slightly more
compared to Europe. Why? US is the center of finance, risk capital,
and one of the most business-friendly places in the world. Why not 10
times the performance?

---

The more you dig into the details, the more you will be gobsmacked
about how "limited" the earlier sci generation truly was. You will see
their blunders (and there were many) surely along with their
successes. There is no need to look at the era in grandiose terms and
solidify, freeze, wrap their findings as-is in a cloud of mystery,
wonderous mystic unknown only to be awed at and never be probed or
understood. We cannot build more stupid conclusions on top of this
mess.

---

🔥 🔥 🔥 

Barandes: "Remarkably, the right-hand side of [the formula above]
gives the general mathematical formula for quantum interference,
despite the absence of manifestly quantum-theoretic assumptions. One
sees from this analysis that interference is a direct consequence of
stochastic dynamics not generally being divisible. More precisely,
interference is nothing more than a generic discrepancy between actual
indivisible stochastic dynamics and hypothetically divisible
stochastic dynamics.  In particular, quantum-mechanical interference
does not imply that matter has a physically wavelike nature, contrary
to frequent claims in textbook treatments like [The Feynman Lecture on
Physics] . Indeed, from the perspective of the present discussion, the
notion that quantum-mechanical interference ever necessitated
assigning matter a physically wavelike quality was merely an
unfortunate accident of history, arising from the fact that many early
empirical examples of interference in quantum systems happened to
resemble the behavior of interfering waves propagating in
three-dimensional physical space"

[[-]](https://philarchive.org/archive/BARTSC-13)

---

The Anglo biz-terrorists only care about corp profits, sometimes that
is access, their franchising, finance can enter a country, if not,
chaos works too, in that case their weapons will. See Syria, Libya,
Ukraine, Iraq as examples.

---

When the CEO of the United Fruit company wanted to arrange a coup in
Honduras the Department of State told the him **not** to do it. DOS
even put a tail on him, he evaded the tail, hired bunch of ships,
mercenaries and went to Honduras and overthrew the government there,
installed a puppet president in 1912. This was a businessman.

Now biz owns government through their donor networks, corruption,
kickbacks and revolving doors, the little amt of guardrails that
existed have been completely eradicated in the good part of the last
century, and this one.

---

US business culture is a merchantilist, a biz-terrorist culture, the
Anglo hails from plutocracy, not an ordered militocracy, as in France,
Russia, elsewhere (almost everywhere else). The Anglo exercises rabid
expansionism, not in a way an empire does but more like in a
franchising mentality, its expands its operations, virus-like,
"diversifies" them to use a term from portfolio management. It will
avoid killing if it can enslave (for cheap labor), or sometimes be
content to cut the thumbs off of the weavers in India to destroy a
competing local industry. Let's remember the East India *Company*
performed that feat not the government itself.

---

H2 Central: "KfW is supporting the construction of a national hydrogen
core network on behalf of the German Federal Government. This
forward-looking project is a key component of the Federal Government’s
national hydrogen strategy, as a result of which infrastructure with a
total length of 9,040 km is to be created by 2032. By financing a new
instrument – the amortisation account – KfW will be making a
significant contribution to the implementation of this technology of
the future. KfW is providing a loan for the amortisation account in
the amount of EUR 24 billion. The loan agreement was signed yesterday
evening"

---

"@evanprodromou@threads.net

Nobody owns the Fediverse. It's an permissionless connection between
independent social networks. Anyone can join"

---

\#FighterJet

[[-]](https://cdn.mastdn.ca/media_attachments/files/113/590/501/374/168/253/original/e39705a81b3f8458.jpeg)

---

"[The oil depletion allowance] was first introduced in 1913 and
allowed producers to use the depletion allowed to deduct just 5 per
cent of their income and the deduction was limited to the original
cost of their property. However, in 1926 the depletion allowance was
increased to 27.5 per cent. As Robert Bryce pointed out in his
book.. 'Numerous studies showed that the oilmen were getting a tax
break that was unprecedented in American business. While other
businessmen had to pay taxes on their income regardless of what they
sold, the oilmen got special treatment'"

[[-]](https://spartacus-educational.com/JFKoildepletion.htm)

---

That Texas oilmen had JFK killed apparently was an open secret in
Texas business circles during the 60s.. 

---

Another likely culprit for JFK assasination is Texas oil
interests. Yes, the beloved businessman, again.

Before the assasination JFK wanted to cut the "oil depletion
allowance", a major moneymaker for oil companies. His VP LBJ was a
former oilman, he apparently orchestrated the assasination in
conjunction with Texans to stop the move, had JFK killed (note, while
in Texas). The allowance remained untouched during LBJ's term who was
sworn in after Kennedy.

See there is no need for the "deep state" explanation. It was the
*surface state*, top-level politicians in the pay or in cahoots with
moneyed interests, who truly run America.

---

Tariffs, keeping the dollar as reserve currency are diametrically
opposed. The rest of the world needs dollars to function, US brings
those dollars to them via its trade deficits, at the cost of turning
US into a basket case, a non-country country. If US acts like a
country normalizes its trade balance, the world could naturally want
the dollar dominance to end. I hope it ends. A bancor system would
work much better. It would not require deficits, in fact the system is
designed to balance trade.

---

TASS: "Science financing in Russia may reach 2% of GDP even before
2030 — Putin.. Russia plans to educate one million engineers in the
next three years, the president noted"

---

The movie spend went up to 400 million dollars after reshoots.. 

```python
u.mov_profit(budget=400, gross=1000)
```

```text
Out[1]: 0.0
```

It will need 1 billion at the box office just to break even. This is
Wolverine & Deadpool territory. Looks unlikely

---

Since he played the *Red* Hulk in the new Cap Am and the movie is
blatantly anti-Trump I wondered if Harrison Ford is a Dem shitlib,
Team Blue, (social) left.  And of course he was.. "I was raised
Democrat.. my moral purpose was being a Democrat with the big D" he
told a news source recently. He must have enthusiastically signed up
to play the "Red" Hulk.

---

Feinman, *Delay, Deny, Defend*: "Almost everyone who has health
insurance has a story about an arbitrary or incomprehensible denial of
a claim. [NY DOL found that] the databases used by insurance companies
to calculate the 'reasonable and customary' fees they would pay for
out-of-network treatment were part of a scheme to defraud consumers by
systematically lowballing the fees. UnitedHealth, Aetna, Guardian, and
other companies agreed to stop using the faulty databases and
contribute to the creation of a new independent database...

Insurance companies have influence with regulators for all of the
usual reasons and some unusual ones. The usual ones include money. For
nine of the ten most recent federal election cycles, the insurance
industry has been among the top ten in campaign contributions... in
the 2008 presidential campaign, for example.. Democrat Barack Obama
received $2.2 million...

Industry influence is magnified by the unusual structure of insurance
regulation. An industry dominated by huge national and sometimes
multinational corporations is regulated in fifty state capitals..The
multistate regulatory structure gives companies opportunities to
whipsaw state regulators, threatening to support optional federal
chartering of insurance companies or threatening to stop writing
insurance in a state, as seems to happen regularly when regulators
express any reluctance to allow companies to raise rates as they
please"

---

NYT: "The shooting death of a UnitedHealthcare executive in Manhattan
has unleashed Americans’ frustrations with an industry that often
denies coverage and reimbursement for medical claims. 'Thoughts and
deductibles to the family,' read one comment underneath a video of the
shooting posted online by CNN. 'Unfortunately my condolences are
out-of-network' [said another]"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Scientists Achieve 200x Boost in Hydrogen Efficiency
with Quantum Crystals... Breakthrough in Water Splitting with Chiral
Crystals: A Leap Toward Sustainable Energy.. A groundbreaking
discovery in water splitting technology is paving the way for more
efficient hydrogen production, addressing one of the major barriers to
its widespread adoption. An international team of researchers has
found that special “chiral” crystals—structures with a left- or
right-handed atomic arrangement—can dramatically accelerate the oxygen
evolution reaction, a crucial step in the water splitting process"

---

H2 Central: "The Ikal Solar company plans to develop the project 'Ikal
H2 Photovoltaic Park for the Production of Green Hydrogen' which will
mean a total investment of 2,572.7 million dollars (mdd) in the
municipality of Mina, Nuevo León.. [Mexico] in the next six years"

---

"In the EV transition"... There will be no EV transition..

---

Another battery-lover bites the dust..

Euronews: "Stellantis CEO Tavares quits: Why his EV bet sparked his
departure..  Carlos Tavares has resigned as Stellantis CEO after
nearly four years, amid plunging electric vehicle sales... His
departure highlights the mounting challenges for legacy carmakers in
the EV transition"

---

\#Thorium \#Whistler

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/jSFo_92cJ-U?start=214&end=687)

---

It all started with the Abe meeting, he was handcucked by Trump,
Macron must've seen that and said "I won't let that happen to me!!",
so he attacked pre-emptively when he met Trump. Now it's an ongoing
war.

---

:) Neither wants to get handcucked so it must be a huge struggle for both

Politico: "Push & Pull: Trump, Macron's awkward handshake saga continues"

---

Politico: "Trump and his aides’ public and private exhortations that
the wars involving Israel must come to an end have had some positive
effects, especially in Lebanon. The U.S. official credited Trump’s
meeting with Ron Dermer, a senior aide to Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, with helping push the Israelis to agree to a truce
last month with Hezbollah militants in Lebanon"

---

Geoship Spox: "Everybody realizes that home construction is
broken. It's actually worse than broken, this is an industry that's
been moving backwards in the last 50 years. It costs four times as
much to build a home and it takes twice as long"

---

Since the "developed" world also has an housing crisis thanks to
unfettered immigration and the rich gobbling up homes as investments,
if you can do anything on the supply side it can't be through
business-as-usual methods. Radical new approaches are needed.

Producing housing should be no different than producing coke bottles.
Factories spit out the latter in the billions, same can be done for
housing components given we have the right infrastructure, and the
right design. One of the stable designs is the geodesic approach, the
shape is strong, will work in hurricane hit areas, can be built fast,
insulation is easily achieved (there is outer shell, inner shell, the
gap in between is filled with insulation material, eg wool). Assembly
is done bottom up, component by component, the geometry of the
structure is inherently sturdy and strong.

---

Bioceramics, chemically bonded ceramics are of a similar material that
makes the human bone. They are strong, natural, do not burn or
corrode. The research into the material was conducted by the
government (of course -US National labs-) now some binnesses use them
for home construction. Morgan Bierschenk, Geoship are noteworthy here,
they can manufacture components off-site via injection molding,
components are shipped to house site, and assembled by workers there
in a matter of weeks. No complicated construction process needed.

Bioceramics are healthy, people who spend a few nights at one of those
geodomes say they had the best sleep of their lives, they feel the
health effects around them immediately. According to a spox "we have
800 toxic chemicals in common construction materials.. almost 50% of
homes will test positive for black mold.. these things are leading to
chronic disease.. your home that you spend the most time in is one of
the things that is contributing to the rise of [construction material
toxicity epidemic]".

---

Bioceramic based geodesic dome house construction.. It has future.

---

Russia was preoccupied but they might have been promised certain
things, their base, navy port, and they had their issues with Assad so
maybe they are okay with the change of the guard.. Did they follow the
same pattern as in Armenia/Azerbaijan (for the longest time they sold
weapons to both sides, and once Armenia made some pro-EU noises, they
had the shit kicked out of them, lost major territory).

---

It appears recent events are tied to outgoing Dems again. With one
last gasp they greenlit the op, Assad is finally gone. Israel must be
happy. But they might not enjoy the chaos that can follow.

---

With the coup TR non-interventionism was reversed. They pushed the
bitch, pushed the bitch, and the bitch got broken.

---

See my [timeline](0119/2017/12/timeline-syria-tr.html) of Syria
events, TR incursion happened right after the coup attempt, and the
attempt caused a major expulsion of officers who were against the
incursion in Syria (some think pro-NATO officers were expelled, this
is not true).

The following events took place just in 2016 BTW, I copy-pasted that
block, without taking anything out, there was nothing notable
happening in between them. Note there was a soon-outgoing Democrat
administration, right before Trump. The Black Bill Clinton is in the
WH at that point. Now Trump is about to step in, and Dems are on the
way out. Do we notice a rhyme?

- 15/07: TR coup attempt
- 17/08: TR announces interest in buying Russian S-400 defense system
- 20/08: A wedding is bombed killing 54 civilians and injured 94 in
  the southeastern TR city of Gaziantep many of whom are Kurdish,
  Syria connected jihadis were suspected
- 24/08: TR military offensive into northern Syria starts with US support
- 04/11: Demirtaş, a pro-Kurdish party leader arrested 
- 19/12: Russian Ambassador to TR assasinated

As can be noticed, anti-Kurd, pro-anti-Russia items are interspersed
in there.. This has been the "new Turkey" of late.

---

Asia Minor for the longest time was non-interventionist. But bcz it is
US' bitch it got pushed into many things.

---

Sure Syria and Iraq had phony governmental structures, in Iraq Sunni
leader (Saddam) was running a Shite majority country, in Syria a Shite
minority (Assads) were ruling over a Sunni majority. After Shites came
to power in Iraq it would only make sense the same for Sunnis would
happen in Syria.

But it was wrong to work towards that goal, as it created much
carnage, Russia got involved, triggered a refugee crisis, it became a
big hot mess. We'll see how future events shape up, if Syria becomes a
better place to make the effort worth it. It doesn't look good at the
moment.

---

Assad's precondition for any talk was the return of taken land by TR
sponsored groups, TR wasn't too warm to the idea, so there wasn't much
to this "thaw" in reality.

"There was a thaw between Syria and TR, why would the latter have
organized the rebels against Assad?"

---

NDTV: "Assad Regime Falls, Rebels Declare 'New Era' In Syria"

---
