# Week 18


TNR: "[A 2022 book *The Network State: How to Start a New Country*]..
outlines a plan for tech plutocrats to exit democracy and establish
new sovereign territories. I mentioned [its] ideas in two previous
stories about Network State–related efforts in California—a proposed
tech colony called California Forever and the tech-funded campaign to
capture San Francisco’s government...

'What I’m really calling for is something like tech Zionism,' [author]
said, after comparing his movement to those started by.. Theodor Herzl
('spiritual father' of the state of Israel).. . then revealed
his shocking ideas for a tech-governed city where citizens loyal to
tech companies would form a new political tribe clad in gray
t-shirts. 'And if you see another Gray on the street … you do the
nod,' he said, during a four-hour talk on the Moment of Zen
podcast. 'You’re a fellow Gray.'.. Grays would also receive special ID
cards providing access to exclusive, Gray-controlled sectors of the
city. In addition, the Grays would make an alliance with the police
department, funding weekly 'policeman’s banquets' to win them over"

---

"KarunaX@mastodon.world

When my friends in the #US complain about #China wanting to take over
the world...."

[[-]](https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/112/341/509/307/707/706/small/b1a6f7291aad90be.png)

---

Arab News: "Some senior US officials have advised Secretary of State
Antony Blinken that they do not find 'credible or reliable' Israel’s
assurances that it is using US-supplied weapons in accordance with
international humanitarian law, according to an internal State
Department memo reviewed by Reuters'

---

NPR: "Delta flight makes emergency return after exit slide separates
from Boeing aircraft"

---

"Arming genocide? New report documents use of US arms in Israeli war crimes | UpFront"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/uKPW0xtcTtY)

---

How to get to 3 stars from 1? Daniel Davis explains how..

\#MIC

[[-]](https://youtu.be/ZtxAMJk9MIY?t=1545)

---

Declassified UK: "UK military support for Israel’s genocide was
pre-planned.. In aiding Israel’s mass attacks on Palestinians in Gaza,
Britain is implementing an agreement openly signed with Netanyahu’s
far-right coalition – which has been almost entirely ignored in the UK
national media.

It explicitly states the two countries are 'natural allies' – ignoring
Israel’s pariah status among much of the rest of the world due its
illegal occupation of the West Bank and “apartheid” system
discriminating against Palestinians.

Notably, the Roadmap has a section entitled 'Antisemitism,
delegitimisation, and anti-Israel bias' whose wording directly
prophesies Britain’s extraordinary apologias for Israel’s Gaza
atrocities in international fora.

It calls for 'tackling the disproportionate focus on Israel in the UN
and other international bodies, including attempts to delegitimise it
or deny its right to self-defence. All states have a duty to comply
with their obligations under international law, but scrutiny must be
measured, impartial and proportionate'"

---

\#Frontline \#RU \#UA 04/23 - 04/28

[[-]](mbl/2024/ukrdata/map15.html)

---
