# Week 29


Truthout: "[Passenger] describes how Delta Airlines threatened to kick
him off a plane over his 'Jews Say Ceasefire Now' T-shirt...

'My T-shirt displayed the text "Not in Our Name" on the front side and
"Jews Say Ceasefire Now" on the back... Before the flight had even
taken off, I was approached while I was seated on the plane by a
flight attendant who requested that I either change or cover up my
shirt because some passengers found the message offensive.. I
requested that the people who had complained about the nature of my
shirt come talk to me directly..

About 5 to 10 minutes later, a purser (also known as a chief flight
attendant or cabin manager) came to my seat and explained that I had
to cover up the shirt, because Delta had a policy against showcasing
political messages of any kind. I once again refused to cover up the
shirt. The purser then threatened to kick me off the flight unless I
obliged her wishes. Because I wanted to get to my destination, I
covered up the "Jews Say Ceasefire Now" shirt for the time being with
a nondescript white shirt. The flight took off'"

---

The Conversation: "Israel has reportedly approved its largest seizure
of land in the occupied West Bank in over three decades, according to
a report released on July 3 by Israeli anti-settlement watchdog, Peace
Now. The seizure involves more than 12 sq km of land in a key corridor
bordering Jordan.

Land that is privately owned by Palestinians in the West Bank can be
declared as 'state land' by Israel and subsequently seized. One of the
primary outcomes is the establishment or expansion of Israeli
settlements on the land, which are widely considered illegal under
international law"

---

"@ItsTrainingCatsAndDogs@kolektiva.social

Whoooooaaaa. Israel is attacking like crazy right now while everyone’s distracted"

---

F24: "Israeli strike on Gaza 'safe zone' kills more than 70, officials say"

---

The American Conservative: "'In Trump’s first term [his] realist
impulses were muted and sometimes stopped by hawkish national security
staffers who did not share his vision. But having learned that
personnel is policy, Trump will not make this mistake again'

So write Andrew Byers and Randall Schweller in *Foreign Affairs*.
Schweller, an academic at Ohio State, is a card-carrying foreign
policy realist, and is willing to put his name to a claim that we have
argued in these pages all along: Donald Trump, despite his mercurial
nature and despite the opposition from entrenched interests in
Washington, DC, is fundamentally displaying a realist instinct in his
foreign policy... [he writes] 'an "America first" agenda is an
intellectually defensible, fundamentally realist program that seeks to
ascertain and act on the United States’ national interests rather than
the interests of others'"

---

An anti M&A mindset! We can't have that!

FT: "Vance.. has been among the loudest Republican voices opposing
more US aid to Ukraine... But it is Vance’s [economy views] that has
divided the business community...

'He represents something in the country that the coastal elites and
big business have taken too long to recognise,' [a bank] lobbyist
added, in an apparent reference to Vance’s ability to channel the
anger and disenfranchisement of the working classes...

Vance has espoused a protectionist trade policy, stricter immigration
laws, higher minimum wages and a more aggressive approach to antitrust
enforcement. He made headlines earlier this year when he described
Federal Trade Commission chair Lina Khan as one of the Biden
administration officials 'doing a pretty good job'...

Those kind of comments have concerned investors in particular. One top
New York dealmaker said picking Vance as vice-president 'would not be
reassuring to the business community, and could signal an anti-M&A
mindset for the second Trump administration'"

---

Spicy

"Ohio Sen. JD Vance, a top VP contender, blames Trump rally shooting
on Biden 'rhetoric'"

---

Shooter is registered Rep?. Sounds like an extreme non-MAGA
type. After recent Biden mishaps he could have lost hope and took
matters in his own hands..  to the extent a dill weed 20 yo could of
course.

---

NBC News: "Frenzied Democratic effort to replace Biden comes to a
standstill after Trump rally shooting"

---

I'm glad. The event will help Biden a little taking focus off him. But
it will help DJT more, now there is an iconic image associated with
the event, he looked like a warrior, bloodied, while fighting against
forces arrayed against him.

Reuters: "Trump survives assassination attempt at campaign rally"

---

