# Week 4


Phys.org: "New material opens up possibility of converting water
pollutants into hydrogen gas.. WPI Researchers have developed a
material to remove urea from water and potentially convert it into
hydrogen gas. By building these materials of nickel and cobalt atoms
with carefully tailored electronic structures, the group has unlocked
the potential to enable these transition metal oxides and hydroxides
to selectively oxidize urea in an electrochemical reaction"

<img width='340' src='https://scx1.b-cdn.net/csz/news/800a/2024/the-process-of-efficie.jpg'/> 

---

"@baldur@toot.cafe

'The EU is just protectionism!'

Yes. THAT’S WHAT IT’S FOR. The entire goddamn point of the EU is to
protect domestic European production. That’s the reason it was
invented in the first place. It’s not there to beat European consumers
into submission for US tech companies"

---

"@reichenstein@mastodon.social

So Apple loses in court and is now forced to allow developers to offer
a link to pay for the app outside AppStore. So... In response, Apple's
Masters of Evil lawyer team draws up a set of new 'laws' ('give us
full access to your books so we can still take our 1/3 of your revenue
there!') to undermine that ruling and reaffirm their old legally
denied practice...

I have written about the shackles of paying 30% of productivity
software revenue at length—and I have learned that Apple users do
neither understand nor care about indie dev economics as long as they
get a new shiny iPhone next season"

---

"We are not rich enough not to have to". That is hilarious. @Twocantravel

[[-]](https://youtu.be/KsNxOFDjlrw?t=750)

---

Jake Johnson: "Survey results released Tuesday.. show that nearly
three-quarters of millionaires in G20 countries support higher taxes
on extreme wealth, which they view as an increasingly dire threat to
democracy. The poll was conducted by the London-based firm Survation
on behalf of the Patriotic Millionaires, an advocacy group that
campaigns for a more progressive tax system. The survey, which polled
over 2,300 millionaires in G20 nations, found that 74% 'support higher
taxes on wealth to help address the cost-of-living crisis and improve
public services'...

'We, the very richest, are sick and tired of inaction, so it's hardly
surprising that working people, at the sharp end of our rigged
economies, have lost all patience,' said Guy Singh-Watson, a British
entrepreneur and member of Patriotic Millionaires U.K.

The poll was released as 260 millionaires and billionaires signed a
letter imploring the dozens of world leaders at the World Economic
Forum in Davos to raise taxes on rich people like them, warning that a
continued failure to 'address the dramatic rise of income inequality"
would be "catastrophic for society'"

---

Stock markets are breaking records, same reason; too much concentrated
wealth looking for assets to buy. Sometimes that is stocks, sometimes
real estate, even crypto - anything with enough liquidity will be a
target.

---

REIT is an ETF, an indirect way to bet on real-estate 

---

Even Robinhood monkeys are getting into that action. "I'm gonna buy
some REITs broo!"

---

Look at the median home price.. Clearly a trader needs to bet on asset
prices going up, because the rich is gobbling up assets, their wealth
increases, and they buy more assets. 

[[-]](2021/01/stats.html#medhouse)

---

\#BEV

"@respectmyplanet@mstdn.social

Imagine mandating a technology where selling points in the dead of
winter are: 1) dont run the heater. 2) dont pay attn to the range
estimate, you could lose 40% of that. 3). Dont let it sit in cold
overnight if its below 20% charge. 4) It might take a long time to
charge when its cold which can be exacerbated by long lines & cars
bricked blocking chargers. 5) Virtually none of the raw materials for
the powertrain come from USA or Europe. They predominantly come from
countries that dont like you"

---

Heise Online: "The 'BSR HyAirport' project for a hydrogen
infrastructure for climate-neutral flights in the Baltic Sea region
officially started on Tuesday. 16 airports, airlines, research
institutions and technology companies from Germany, Scandinavia, the
Baltic States and Poland want to work together with 24 partners"

---

Al-Monitor: "Hezbollah warns Israel against continued 'aggression'"

---

Arab News: "Leaders of Non-Aligned Movement or NAM countries have
denounced Israel’s military campaign in Gaza and demanded an immediate
ceasefire there, during the annual summit of the 120-member bloc"

---

Politico: "Defense in Davos: US on back foot as world roils around
it.. Day after day, the officials faced questions about the political
tussle over providing more aid to Ukraine, congressional polarization,
the optics of supporting Israel despite the suffering of Palestinians
and a growing bombing campaign against the Houthis in Yemen"

---

Politico: "The EU’s top diplomat Josep Borrell on Friday openly
accused Israel of having financed the Palestinian militant group
Hamas... 'Hamas was financed by the Israeli government in an attempt
to weaken the Palestinian Authority,' Borrell was quoted as saying by
Spanish newspaper El País. Borrell was speaking at Spain’s University
of Valladolid, where the Spanish politician was awarded an honorary
doctorate"

---

NYT: "Some Israeli commanders said the government’s two main goals were
mutually incompatiable. To eradicate Hamas, the military would have to
engage in a lengthy war that would most likely cost the hostages’
lives"

---

Arab News: "US Democrats push Biden administration over civilian toll
in Israel’s Gaza campaign.. The letter to..  Blinken, led by US
Representatives Ayanna Pressley and Jamie Raskin, was signed by 60
Democratic House of Representatives members, reflecting concern,
especially on the left, over the steep toll on Palestinian civilians
of Israel’s campaign against Hamas"

---

Income equality increased massively after 30s in Germany, from GINI
level 30 up to 44 between Depression and WWII, see paper [here](https://pure.rug.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/97038386/Le_n_et_al_2019_The_Economic_History_Review.pdf).
The terrible thing about it was its fluctuation which IMO gave
ppl the impression their well-being was on knife's edge, which could
have led them to a certain demagogue with a funny mustache.

---
