# Week 40

A correct, already unified theory would have been settled on by now if
Eurasia remained the center of science. US stewardship is the prime
culprit in the deadlock we find ourselves in.

---

The Albert quote below fittingly became huge in America after he
arrived there because it suited to the culture code of the land, one
they attached themselves - DREAM. But after decades of "imaginative"
and dreamy shit where are we?  Nowhere. Two fundamental theories
cannot be reconciled, unification attempts failed and failed even
after mammoth efforts expanded, including Albert's. Clearly imagination
is not the most important factor.

---

Not true. Knowledge is more important than imagination. If we assign
weights I'd say 90% knowledge 10% imagination.

We also need to ask the question "what kind of imagination?". We need
the type of imagination that is straightforward, internally
consistent, and has a certain craft attached to it that makes it a
solid base for what's to follow. Space-time could be wildly
imaginative but is not crafty, incorrect, essentially a weak idea.

Einstein: "Imagination is more important than knowledge"

---

Surah Al-Anfal: "They planned, but Allah also planned. And Allah is
the best of planners."

---

The moneyed class, the private complex does not have to congregate
anywhere, secretly scheme about stuff.. They are organized like
al-Qaida, there are seperate, independent cells which are loosely tied
together via ideology. This is how they do economic terrorism.  To
fight it the oppo must fight all the cells, along with the ideology
itself.

---

George Carlin: "You don't need a formal conspiracy when interests
converge"

---

Ukraine before the war was an oligarch-controlled, corrupt country led
by the US proconsul Nuland where elections had become a mere
show. Historically we also know US overthrew democracies via
coups.. It seems as the United States is the real threat to democracy.

---

NST: "GCC reassure Tehran of neutrality in Iran-Israel conflict"

---

Politico: "US officials quietly backed Israel’s military push against
Hezbollah"

---

TASS: "If US moves to resume nuclear tests, Moscow will respond in
kind — Russian diplomat"

---

TASS: "Japan maintains the course toward solving the territorial
dispute and signing a peace treaty with Russia, despite difficulties
in the Japanese-Russian relationship, Japan’s new Prime Minister
Shigeru Ishiba said, delivering his first keynote speech in
parliament"

---

Doctorow: "Epic Systems makes the dominant electronic health record
(EHR) system in America.. How could a product so manifestly unfit for
purpose be the absolute market leader? Simple: as Robert Kuttner
describes in an excellent feature in *The American Prospect*, Epic may
be a clinical disaster, but it's a profit-generating miracle.. At the
core of Epic's value proposition is 'upcoding,' a form of billing
fraud that is beloved of hospital administrators, including the
'nonprofit' hospitals that generate vast fortunes that are somehow not
characterized as profits..

The reason hospital administrators love Epic, and pay gigantic sums
for systemwide software licenses, is directly connected to the two
hours that doctors spent filling in Epic forms for every hour they
spend treating patients. Epic collects all that extra information in
order to identify potential sources of plausible upcodes, which allows
hospitals to bill patients, insurers, and Medicare through the nose
for routine care...

Epic can automatically recode 'diabetes with no complications' from a
Hierarchical Condition Category code 19 (worth $894.40) as "diabetes
with kidney failure," code 18 and 136, which gooses the reimbursement
to 1273.60"

[[-]](https://pluralistic.net/2024/10/02/upcoded-to-death/)

---

"@silverspookgames@wandering.shop

Why does the US military have an exemption from nuclear waste laws in
Hawaii unless it's poisoning us Native Hawaiians and other residents?
Curious, colonizers"

---

"Hawaii Council Considers Repealing Military Exemption From
Nuclear-Free Law"

---

This sounds like the Amazon "cashier-less" store.. there is no AI,
bought items are identified by operators in India who look at the
video of the customer and jot down purchases made.

Jalopnik: "It Takes An Army Of Engineers To Make Self-Driving Cars
Actually Self-Drive.. The self-driving car you’re riding in might not
actually be driving itself, instead it could be getting instructions
from engineers hundreds if miles away"

---

ProPublica: "In late January, as the death toll in Gaza climbed to
25,000 and droves of Palestinians fled their razed cities in search of
safety, Israel’s military asked for 3,000 more bombs from the American
government. U.S. Ambassador to Israel Jack Lew, along with other top
diplomats in the Jerusalem embassy, sent a cable to Washington urging
State Department leaders to approve the sale, saying there was no
potential the Israel Defense Forces would misuse the weapons...

The episodes uncovered by ProPublica, which have not been previously
detailed, offer an inside look at how and why the highest ranking
policymakers in the U.S. government have continued to approve sales of
American weapons to Israel in the face of a mounting civilian death
toll and evidence of almost daily human rights abuses. This article
draws from a trove of internal cables, email threads, memos, meeting
minutes and other State Department records, as well as interviews with
current and former officials throughout the agency, most of whom spoke
on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
speak publicly...

The records and interviews also show that the pressure to keep the
arms pipeline moving also comes from the U.S. military contractors who
make the weapons. Lobbyists for those companies have routinely pressed
lawmakers and State Department officials behind the scenes to approve
shipments"

[[-]](https://www.propublica.org/article/israel-gaza-america-biden-administration-weapons-bombs-state-department)

---

\#TaNehisiCoates \#Apartheid

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/qgWt-QcPYMo?start=250&end=336)

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PPOwLFNMZ6I?start=44&end=257" title="‘The Bentley Of Trucks’: Nikola’s Hydrogen Trucks Wants To Clean Up The Trucking Industry" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Fuel Cells Works: "South Korea's Goal: 21,200 Hydrogen Buses by
2030.. South Korea aims to boost green transport with 21,200 hydrogen
buses, making up 25% of metro fleets by 2030 for a cleaner, efficient
future"

---

Fuel Cells Works: "Port of Oakland receives $2.5 million hydrogen
grant - Port Technology International"

---

Yankee sci institutions of course did give rise some brilliant
scientists, US had the world's best during and after WWII move and
teach there, the know-how rubbed off on some locals who would turn out
ok, Tim Boyer, Putoff are two of those... But the general atmosphere,
the culture would not favor them. As Cetta and de la Pena point out,
some of the groundbreaking papers in theoretical science are
collecting dust, almost noone is paying attention, US as the global
steward of sciences is dropping the ball. This needs to change. The
future does not lie in the dreamy scifi-friendly bullshit generated by
the most visible popularizers right now (you know who they are, get on
YouTube and every other sci vid has some brilliant take arguing there
are multiverses, time or determinism does not exist, cats are both
dead and alive). The future lies with a straightforward basis that can
reproduce known experimental results removing the anthological
aberrations.

---

Boyer is now at City College of New York, and has some elite uni
credentials. Studied with them however stepped out of their consensus.

---

Boyer: "[I]t is shown that free-field quantum electrodynamics bears a
close resemblance to classical electrodynamics in the presence of a
randomly fluctuating transverse field. In particular, the energy
eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the quantum theory are found to be
exactly the field energies and probability densities for the
stationary probability distributions of randomly fluctuating normal
coordinates. The result provides the direct connection between
Casimir's zero-point energy calculations and Lifshitz's general theory
for retarded dispersion forces between macroscopic objects..

[T]he theory of the free quantum electromagnetic field may be regarded
as a convenient description of a classical electromagnetic field
subject to stochastic random fluctuations. Hence, it is easy to
understand the connection between the various calculations for
retarded dispersion forces between metals. Starting from the situation
of a classical fluctuating field, the analysis as given by Lifshitz
merely takes a different route from that leading to the quantum
mechanical description which was used as a starting point by Casimir"

[[-]](https://journals.aps.org/pr/abstract/10.1103/PhysRev.174.1631)

---

That's a good meme

[[-]](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/fzpfs0zr709dejgaxv2i7/trump_smackdown1.gif?rlkey=59qlve3s38qikuw9k7d7uf2vn&st=o9769lgu&raw=1)

---

Increased connectivity might push people to see more wisdom in the
masses then there actually is. It can cause Future Shock, a term
advocated by Toffler, sensory overload due to increased stimuli in
this case due to more ppl talking out of their ass

---

Gen Y'er Zuck 'connected people' in technical terms, right? 

---

Some in Gen Y and later might have been brutalized by increased
numbers around them due to population growth and social connections..
Population increased from 3.68 bil for typical Gen X to
5.3 bil for typical Gen Y, interconnectedness increases to the second
power (between $n$ people there are $n(n-1)$ potential interactions),
that means

```python
n1=3.69*1e9; n2=5.3*1e9; np.round(n2**2 / n1**2,2)
```

```text
Out[1]: 2.06
```

The amount of potential interactions *doubled* for Y.

---

Firstpost: "Hezbollah chief Nasrallah had agreed to ceasefire shortly
before Israel assassinated him: Lebanon minister"

---

\#Lebanon

[[-]](https://cyberplace.social/system/media_attachments/files/113/242/982/526/496/405/original/cb8255771c9679b8.png)

---

Cetta, de la Pena, *The Emerging Quantum*: "[In] 1963..  physicist
Trevor Marshall published a paper in the Proceedings of the Royal
Society under the short title *Random Electrodynamics*—an intriguing
title, at that time. To date this paper has received just over four
citations per year, which means it is alive, but not as present as it
could be, considering the perspectives it opened for theoretical
physics.  Shortly thereafter a related paper was published by..Timothy
Boyer, under the longer title *Quantum Electromagnetic Zero-Point
Energy and Retarded Dispersion Forces*. Boyer does not cite Marshall’s
paper (although he does so in his third paper, which is followed by a
productive 50-year long work in solitary), but instead he refers to
the work of David Kershaw and Edward Nelson on stochastic quantum
mechanics. All these papers share a central feature: they are based on
conceiving quantum mechanics as a stochastic process. Marshall
mentions explicitly the existence of a real, space-filling radiation
zero-point field as the source of stochasticity. Boyer sees a deep
truth in this, and in a note added to his manuscript he comments that
'...in this sense, quantum motions are experimental evidence for
zero-point radiation.'

From a historical perspective, we recall.. in 1916.. Nernst had
proposed to consider atomic stability as experimental evidence for
Planck’s recently discovered zero-point radiation. This visionary idea
was largely ignored by the founders of quantum mechanics.. such is
history. Both Marshall and Boyer succeed in demonstrating that some
quantum phenomena can indeed be understood by the simple expedient of
adding this random zero-point field to the corresponding classical
description. Their pioneering work was soon followed by that of other
colleagues, moved by the conviction that the random zero-point field
has something important to tell us about quantum mechanics. Many other
results have been obtained during this period, which constitute the
essence of the theory largely known under the name of stochastic
electrodynamics.  At the same time, other researchers, notably Nelson,
dedicated their efforts to develop the phenomenological stochastic
theory of quantum mechanics.  The perception that quantumness and
stochasticity are but two different aspects of a reality, started to
gain support from several sides"

---

"@mnot@techpolicy.social

This is *the* best way for governments to be 'sovereign' in the face
of big tech dominance. Well done, Germany and STF"

---

The Register: "Germany's Sovereign Tech Fund (STF), which is backed by
the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action, is
funding open source work again. This time, the recipients are the
FreeBSD Foundation and SerNet, which is one of the backers of the
Samba Project.

The STF gave the GNOME ecosystem €1 million in 2023, as we mentioned
in July, but clearly the fund has broader aspirations. The Register
has previously mentioned that FreeBSD also received funding. Now it
looks like the foundation will spend its €686,400 ($767,200, or
£573,000) by investing it in its infrastructure"

---

Ain't that great..? Need money, in debt? Just start slapping around
corps and the ultra wealthy. They owe their existence to government
anyway which subsidizes them through infra, R&D, if not outright
through cold hard cash. Gov giveth and (should) taketh away.

CNBC: "Ireland reveals how it plans to spend 'transformational' $14
billion Apple tax windfall.. 'It is this government's view that we
should utilize these revenues to address the known challenges that we
face in housing, energy, water and transport infrastructure,' Chambers
said"

---

The problem is the rich gobling up assets, using real-estate as
investment. To find the culprit of housing price rise look no further
than the former secretary Jeremy Hunt who bought seven homes at once
to exploit a stamp duty loophole. He is not an aberration, and, sadly,
not even that rich. There is wealth that can buy them by the dozens.

Harper, *The Guardian*: "Even though housebuilding in the UK has
decreased since its high point in the 1960s, we are still building new
homes faster than the population is growing. In 1971 there was almost
one dwelling for every three people in the country. Today, there is
about one dwelling for every 2.25 people, meaning we actually have
more homes per capita right now than we did 50 years ago.

If the yimby [yes in my backyard crowd] hunch that house values fall
when the supply of new homes outstrips population growth were correct,
we should have seen overall prices come down since the 1970s. In fact,
Britain has experienced the exact opposite; five decades of
astronomical property-price inflation...

The bottom line: increasing the supply of new homes relative to the
population simply doesn’t bring down prices as yimbys claim"

---

TASS: "Hezbollah says its fighters engage in battles with Israeli army
in southern Lebanon"

---

Politico: "The big VP debate takeaway: Neither candidate delivered the goods"

---

Newsweek: "China Unveils 'Groundbreaking' Hydrogen High Speed Train"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/113/692/262/original/adee7d7e21b4cd7a.jpg'/>

---

Carscoops: "Bentley Delays EV-Only Plans"

---

Euronews: "Italy, Germany join carmakers in call to rethink internal
combustion engine ban"

---

Van Flandern: "[1998] The link between relativity and the causality
principle involves issues of the meaning of gravitational waves and
curved space-time analogies. Apparently, Lorenzian relativity better
describes nature than special relativity... [W]e note experimental
evidence from neutron interferometers that purports to demonstrate a
failure of the geometric weak equivalence principle, that gravity is
due to a curvature of space-time. This experiment confined the strong
equivalence principle (local equivalence of a uniform acceleration and
a gravitational field), but its results are incompatible with the
geometrical weak equivalence principle because interference effects in
quantum mechanics depend on the mass, and therefore cannot be purely
the result of space-time geometry. This is because the wave nature of
the neutron depends on the momenium of the neutron, which is mass
times velocity. So all phase-dependent phenomena depend on the mass
through the wavelength, a feature intrinsic to quantum mechanics..

Since the experiment confirms the applicability of quantum mechanics
even in the presence of gravity, including this non-geometrical mass
dependence, the experiment seems to be a step in the undermining of
the purely geometrical point of view, and 'tends to bother theorists
who prefer to think of gravity as being intrinsically related to
geometry'"

---

"@13hannes11

I am surprised how well @organicmaps works in china. It really made a
lot of things easier"

---

What is known as "smart" usually indicates tunnel-vision,
micro-problem smart.  This smart gets the mechanics, and cranks
through problems, within a given backdrop. They almost never question
the backdrop, the underlying domain, hence the "wrong direction"
comment by Hintjens. At times however one needs to question it all,
the accepted, the given, the basis. That is another level of smart.

---

Pieter Hintjens: "Smarter people may work faster, but they may also
work in the wrong direction."

---

TASS: "Houthis announce UAV strikes on targets in Tel Aviv, Eilat"

---

CNBC: "Abu Dhabi's [UAE] ADNOC to acquire German chemicals firm
Covestro for $16.4 billion"

---

Fortune: "Japan's new train-loving prime minister wants a higher
corporate tax rate, .. and a review of long working hours"

---

Vuhledar Has Fallen

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 09/23 - 10/01

[[-]](ukrdata/map37.html)

---

Physicist Sakharov.. Russki mfker. He got some game, fine scientists
hail from the land.

---

Puthoff: "[1989] Gravity as a zero-point-fluctuation force.. Sakharov
has proposed a suggestive model in which gravity is not a separately
existing fundamental force, but rather an induced effect associated
with zero-point fluctuations (ZPF's) of the vacuum, in much the same
manner as the van der Waals and Casimir forces. In the spirit of this
proposal we develop a point-particle — ZPF interaction model that
accords with and fulfills this hypothesis. In the model gravitational
mass and its associated gravitational effects are shown to derive in a
fully self-consistent way from electromagnetic-ZPF-induced particle
motion (*Zitterbewegung*). Because of its electromagnetic-ZPF
underpinning, gravitational theory in this form constitutes an
'already unified' theory..

In this view the attractive gravitational force is more akin to the
induced van der Waals and Casimir than to the fundamental Coulomb
force. Although speculative when first introduced by Sakharov in 1967,
this hypothesis has led to a rich and ongoing literature on
quantum-fluctuation-induced gravity that continues to be of
interest. In this approach the presence of matter in the vacuum is
taken to constitute a kind of set of boundaries as in a generalized
Casimir effect, and..  quantum fluctuations of the vacuum under these
circumstances..  lead to an action and metric that reproduce Einstein
gravity...

This treatment of quantum field-particle interactions on the basis of
a classical ZPF constitutes an analysis technique known in the
literature as stochastic electrodynamics (SED). SED is a well-defined
framework that has a long history of success in yielding precise
quantitative agreement with full QED treatments of such topics as
Casimir and van der Waals forces, topics directly related to the one
pursued here [a topic mentioned before, see post on Cetta and Louis de
la Pena]"

[[-]](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/13386630_Gravity_as_a_zero-point-fluctuation_force)

---

Another [grainy photo](https://cdn.wionews.com/sites/default/files/styles/story_page/public/2024/09/26/456960-ufo-1.png?imwidth=400).

WION: "This UFO was shot down by US Air Force over Alaska. Ex-military
official reveals the truth behind it"

---

Smolin, *The Trouble with Physics*: "Dyson [.. said he came] to the
institute [in Princeton] hoping to get to know Einstein. So he went to
Einstein’s secretary, Helen Dukas, to make an appointment. The day
before the appointment, he began to worry about not having anything
specific to discuss with the great man, so he got from Ms. Dukas
copies of Einstein’s recent scientific papers. They were all about
Einstein’s efforts to construct a unified-field theory. Reading them
that evening, Dyson decided they were junk. The next morning, he
realized that although he couldn’t face Einstein and tell him his work
was junk, he couldn’t not tell him either. So he skipped the
appointment and, he told me, spent the ensuing eight years before
Einstein’s death avoiding him"

---

He tried until he died, in the last decade of his life he was
producing gibberish too, Freeman Dyson told so to Lee Smolin.

---

Albert E did his best trying to unify his theory with QM but failed
that's because he'd made a mistake two steps ago, he tried to "connect
stuff on top" to make it go away, but he failed.

---

Build more homes! 🤨 \#Hawaii 

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/hCkndaJW8cg?start=11&end=50)

---

I believe the two previous shares are related.

---

"Hawaii Ranks 4th for Homeless per Capita"

---

"Hawaii is the most expensive state in the nation for housing."

---

Sulzberger, NYT played a role in the overthrow, they are
culpable. Will NYT apologize?

---

Kinzer: "United Fruit rose to its mythical status in Guatemala under
the leadership of Sam Zemurray, the visionary 'Banana Man' who had
organized the overthrow of President Miguel Davila of Honduras in
1911.. Soon after Guatemala turned democratic, in 1944, Zemurray
sensed that its reformist government would give the company
trouble... he wanted to be sure that American public opinion was with
him. He decided to hire an outside public relations expert.. Bernays..
He proposed to Zemurray that United Fruit launch a campaign to blacken
the image of Guatemala's government. That, he argued, could decisively
weaken it and perhaps set off events that would trigger its collapse.

'I have the feeling that Guatemala might respond to pitiless publicity
in this country,' Bernays surmised.. [Zemurray] authorized Bernays to
launch his campaign, and the results soon began to show. First were a
series of articles in the New York Times, portraying Guatemala as
falling victim to 'reds'; they appeared after Bernays visited Times
publisher Arthur Hays Sulzberger. Next came reports in leading
magazines, most of them written, like the Times series, with helpful
advice from Bernays.  Then Bernays began organizing press junkets to
Guatemala. They produced glowing dispatches about United Fruit and
terrifying ones about the emergence of Marxist dictatorship in
Guatemala.  Prominent members of Congress echoed these themes...

[Guatemalan goverment was soon overthrown, thanks to United Fruit]

---

It turns out both Einstein's SR and GR are incorrect, no wonder people
can't unify shit.

---

Louis de Broglie was a big cheese in theroretical psy 

Who is Vigier? Wiki says "in 1948 he was appointed assistant to Louis
de Broglie, a position he held until the latter's retirement in 1962"

---

What is gravity's speed? Very fast (it's not $c$)

Jean-Pierre Vigier: "[T]he existence of.. faster-than-light
interactions is compatible with causality if special relativity (SR)
is replaced with Lorentz’s interpretation (LR) of relativity. In the
latter interpretation, one describes real material objects causally
moving within an absolute independent space-time, with a velocity $v >
c$ (with proper internal energy-momentum and angular momenta) under
the influence of Poincaré fields governed by the laws of relativity;
i.e., which correspond to causal particle and field behavior. In other
terms, in this model, the gravitational field can carry gravitational
waves propagating at lightspeed and Newtonian, attractive,
superluminal fields (surrounding massive objects)"

---

Land invasion of southern Lebanon is where the rubber meets the road.
All this bombing and Holywood attacks (beepers!) are time fillers, for
the cameras...

---

TASS: "China deeply concerned over growing escalation in wake of death
of Hezbollah leader"

---

He really didn't say anything different.. Ending the conflict even w
loss of some land is good for Ukraine

Politico: "Trump vows to negotiate Ukraine-Russia deal that’s ‘good
for both sides’ in appearance with Zelenskyy"

---

Firstpost: "Xi, others admit China economy faces ‘new problems’; focus
on fixing property sector"

---
