# Week 1


"@SafeStreetRebel@sfba.social

[..2023] was a big year for transit. Working together with many
different groups, we won over a billion dollars for transit. The fight
for transit in California is far from over but we're headed in the
right direction..

Here are some things we did in 2023..

- Demonstrated self-driving cars don't work. Cruise no longer operates
  in California

- A lot of guerilla infrastructure, including taking inspiration from
  @crosswalksLA"

---

The Baltic Times: "Six gas transmission operators develop the
cross-border hydrogen transmission infrastructure from Finland through
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland to Germany, namely
the Nordic-Baltic Hydrogen Corridor. The goal of the project is to
create the connection between green energy production regions in
Northern Europe with the main consumption centres in Central
Europe. This project is expected to be implemented by 2030"

---

GlobeNewswire: "NewHydrogen.. the developer of ThermoLoop a
breakthrough technology that uses water and heat rather than
electricity to produce the world’s cheapest green hydrogen, today
announced.. the potential use of graphene in catalysts for green
hydrogen production and fuel cell technologies"

---

What is The Matrix? It is corporate control. The Matrix is a privately
generated dream world, built to keep us under control in order to
change a human being into [this](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/687/251/879/246/348/original/0ab13d179cae781d.jpg).

---

"@jasongorman@mastodon.cloud

The 10 wealthiest people in the world are worth a combined $1.2
trillion. In real terms, that's 6x what the 10 wealthiest were worth
30 years ago"

---

Vox: "The science is in: exercise won’t help you lose much weight"

---

*Aloha* 2015, *Fracture*, very good.. *Get Him to the Greek*, I'll
give it a 4.

---

Scientific American: "Vaccination Dramatically Lowers Long Covid
Risk.. Several new studies reveal that getting multiple COVID vaccine
doses provides strong protection against lingering symptoms"

---

Black holes, as theorized, have no volume, so they cannot have
vibrational lattice, cannot generate blackbody spectrum, radiation.

---

They engraved the formula for "Hawking radiation" on there.. 

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Ewby62wWgAEY2bq.jpg)

---

Stephen Hawking is buried next to Isaac Newton in Westminister Abby.
I.N. is turning in his grave for who was buried next to him. 

---

[Link](2022/08/black-holes.html)

---

You bake a cake, cut it into two pieces. Those two pieces would have
the same temperature right? I could not double the temperature by
cutting the cake into two. The commentary is bizarre. 

---

Sounds baseless

"The radiation temperature is inversely proportional to the black hole's mass"

---

"@fedijedi@mstdn.cool

Japanese disaster prevention X account can’t post anymore after
hitting API limit (another reason why governments and critical
agencies and nonprofits should have their own Fediverse instances to
disperse essential emergency info...)"

---

TDB: "During one of Bill Clinton’s jaunts around the world
with Jeffrey Epstein in 2002, the former president enjoyed a
six-course meal in Singapore with [him]... Now photos of the
occasion—which were scrubbed from the National Archives of Singapore
(NAS)—are resurfacing"

---

Of course he won't.. He is Anglo's bitch and BRICS is an alternate
grouping to the Anglo. This guy is firmly in line with
military-industrial-Likud complex.

The Guardian: "Milei says Argentina will not be joining Brics bloc in policy reversal"

---

NYT: "New Spin on a Revolving Door: Pentagon Officials Turned Venture
Capitalists...The New York Times has identified at least 50 former
Pentagon and national security officials, most of whom left the
federal government in the last five years, who are now working in
defense-related venture capital or private equity as executives or
advisers. In many cases, The Times confirmed that they continued to
interact regularly with Pentagon officials or members of Congress to
push for policy changes or increases in military spending that could
benefit firms they have invested in.“There’s panache now with the ties
between the defense community and private equity,” said Ellen M. Lord,
a former under secretary of defense for acquisitions"

---

Mondoweiss: "The reason Israel’s die-hard supporters in the United
States have tried to ban, or even criminalize, the campaign for
Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) is not that it is
illegitimate or anti-semitic. It is precisely because boycotting,
sanctioning ,and divesting from Israel may be an effective strategy to
help bring down its genocidal, expansionist, and unaccountable regime"

---

Mondoweiss: "Following the previous U.S. veto of a ceasefire at the
Security Council, the UN General Assembly took up the global call for
a ceasefire, and the resolution, sponsored by Jordan, passed by 120
votes to 14, with 45 abstentions. The 12 small countries who voted
with the United States and Israel represented less than 1% of the
world’s population. The isolated diplomatic position in which the
United States found itself should have been a wake-up call..

After the United States again slammed the Security Council door in
Palestine’s face on December 8, the desperate need to end the massacre
in Gaza returned to the UN General Assembly on December 12. An
identical resolution to the one the U.S. vetoed in the Security
Council was approved by a vote of 153 to 10, with 33 more yes votes
than the one in October. While General Assembly resolutions are not
binding, they do carry political weight, and this one sends a clear
message that the international community is disgusted by the carnage
in Gaza"

---

Haaretz: "[2006] IDF Commander: We Fired More Than a Million Cluster
Bombs in Lebanon.. Phosphorous and cluster bombs heavily used;
unexploded munitions litter wide area of Lebanon. 'What we did was
insane and monstrous, we covered entire towns in cluster bombs,' the
head of an IDF rocket unit in Lebanon said regarding the use of
cluster bombs and phosphorous shells"

---

ABC AU: "Feasibility study into hydrogen fuel-powered freight 'HyWay'
between Adelaide and Melbourne.. As businesses look to reduce their
carbon footprints, one company is exploring a multi-million-dollar
project to transport freight between South Australia and Victoria with
zero emissions. Countrywide Hydrogen has launched a feasibility study
into the construction of a "Hydrogen HyWay" between Adelaide and
Melbourne"

---

Fortune: "Toyota’s bet on hybrid cars seems to be paying off as it
rides consumer skepticism of an all-EV future to maintain its lead as
the world’s top selling automaker"

---

With a budget of 340, gross 704 mil, *Fast X* 

```python
u.mov_profit(340, 704)
```

```text
Out[1]: -87.6
```

lost money according to my formula's estimate.. 

---

Really? WTF

"@Wolven@ourislandgeorgia.net

 .. [Steven Pinker] aided Jeffery Epstein's legal defense"

---

Reshare

Annual changes in the housing stock (percentage), on average, looks
higher than population change. There are enough housing units, but top
10% is likely hoarding them, some people cannot find places to
live. We can regulate home ownership - mandate so that noone can own
more than one home, or a patch of land bigger than enough to live on,
for individuals or business alike, including farming. The rest becomes
public property.

```python
df = u.get_fred(1980,["TTLHHM156N","POPTOTUSA647NWDB"])
df.columns = ['housing','population']
df.asfreq(freq='A',method='bfill').pct_change().mean()*100
```

```text
Out[1]: 
housing       1.142863
population    0.893067
dtype: float64
```

---

71 bil.. they are not making that money back. Even if they made
30 profitable movies with that new IP it still would not be enough.

---

Homer Simpson as an Avenger.. great idea. Marvel already cannot sink
any lower.

NPR: "[2019] Homer Simpson probably won't become the newest member of
the Avengers, but anything's possible now that Disney owns 21st
Century Fox. One year after the Walt Disney Co. announced the $71.3
billion merger, it's official"

---

Latent space is usually a reduced dimension, sometimes a decomposition
of another space. I could decompose 6 into 3 times 2, maybe that tells
us something.. Can decompose a matrix, we can look at individual
pieces for more clues, each piece could be seen as a latent space.

---

LLM can be useful for a sort of glorifed search where "chatting" with
the thing actually searches in "a latent space" as Howard calls it, a
likely useful compressed space of knowledge that might give you better
results compared to a regular search. LLM is not thinking, it is
merely indexing knowledge, that could be useful in limited, focused
applications.

---

"@baldur@toot.cafe

Two points [on 'AI and Lossy Bottlenecks'].. 

1. A lot of previously sensible people are being swept up by the AI
bubble.

2. The ideas in this post are literally a mechanism for taking away
your right to vote and replace it with a software-mediated
plutocracy...

The bubble will only get more ridiculous before it pops. We’re still
in early days yet. That somebody who is ostensibly a political
“moderate” outright advocates a system that would replace voting with
an opaque system that would inevitably be built and designed by
multinational corporations and implicitly favour their interests is
not even close to the peak of this nonsense marathon"

---

Listen to this guy

"AI and Lossy Bottlenecks [Schneier on Security]... Removing
democracy’s bottleneck.. the lossy bottleneck that has the largest
effect on society is in politics. It’s the same problem as the
restaurant. As a complicated citizen, your policy positions are
probably nuanced, trading off between different options and their
effects. You care about some issues more than others and some
implementations more than others. If you had the knowledge and time,
you could engage in the deliberative process and help create better
laws than exist today.. Imagine a system where AI removes this lossy
bottleneck.

---

CNBC: "Oil prices rise as Iranian warship enters Red Sea after
U.S. destroys Houthi boats"

---

Great.. reducing reasons to go to war.. For a while it looked like one
would [start](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-67332811) soon too.

The Guardian: "Ethiopia has signed a 'historic' deal granting it naval
and commercial access to ports along Somaliland’s coast, in exchange
for recognition for the breakaway republic’s independence"

---

"@paulisci@mstdn.ca

A List of Predictions Made in 1924 About 2024"

[Photo](https://cdn.mastdn.ca/media_attachments/files/111/683/037/992/083/574/original/ac3109edf54dd961.png)

[Photo](https://cdn.mastdn.ca/media_attachments/files/111/683/041/751/771/321/small/4232e33ea0b211f4.png)

---

DNA India: "Amazon begins to produce own hydrogen fuel to power
vehicles.. The one-megawatt (MW) proton exchange membrane electrolyser
is the first for Amazon and is producing low-carbon hydrogen to fuel
more than 225 hydrogen fuel cell-powered forklift trucks at the site"

---

Human Right's Watch: "Meta’s policies and practices have been
silencing voices in support of Palestine and Palestinian human rights
on Instagram and Facebook in a wave of heightened censorship of social
media amid the hostilities between Israeli forces and Palestinian
armed groups"

---

"@fuck_cars_bot@botsin.space

'Reject Tradition, Embrace Progress'"

[[-]](https://files.botsin.space/media_attachments/files/111/672/176/437/668/193/original/b10dfdac2734a5da.jpeg)

---

"@EtiOst@mastodon.world

\#COVID19 is a leading cause of death in children and young people in the US⚠️ 😟"

---

NewScientist: "NFTs died a slow, painful death in 2023 as most are now
worthless"

<img width='340' src='https://images.newscientist.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/04121345/SEI_177695107.jpg?width=900'/> 

---

Vox: "To explain leveraged buyouts in easier-to-understand terms,
let’s say you buy a house. Under normal circumstances, if you can’t
pay for the mortgage, you would be in trouble. But by the LBO rules,
you’re only responsible for a portion. If you pay for 30 percent of
the house, the other 70 percent of the asking price is debt placed on
the house. The house owes that money to the bank or creditor who lent
it, not you. Of course, a house can’t owe money. But under the private
equity model, it does, and its assets — its factories, stores,
equipment, etc. — are collateral.

The idea, in theory, behind private equity is that the endeavor will
be worth it — for both you and the house. 'There are many companies
that, if not for private equity, would not be able to get access to
the kind of capital they need to scale, to transform, to turn around,
and to have succession planning,' said one industry source, who
requested anonymity to speak candidly for this story.

But because of the debt companies end up owing creditors as part of a
deal, they sometimes find themselves with such high interest payments
that they can’t make the investments necessary to be competitive or
even stay afloat. Plus, companies often take out additional loans to
pay private equity investors dividends, and then they pay a fee if and
when they are sold. If they can’t pay off the debt, the companies are
on the hook, and their employees and customers are the ones to suffer
the consequences.

And private equity’s No. 1 priority isn’t the long-term health of the
companies it buys — it’s to make money, and as is the case in so many
facets of investing today, to make money fast.

'Some of the larger private equity firms, they’re not retaining
investments in the long-term. They are designed to produce short-term
returns, and if there is nothing left of the company at the end,
that’s okay,' said Rep. Katie Porter (D-CA) in an interview.

---

Corporate power built the ICSID system to avoid having to entice their
lapdog politicians to invade countries left and right for them. This
shady arbitration system is active, ready-for-use 24/7, every day of
the year. Corps can always drag a country to court for minor
disgressions, even the threat of it can make countries roll over and
roll out the red carpet for you. No need for colonization in this day
and age. The post-colonial system is more insidious and underhanded.

---

ICSID vs South Africa  

[[-]](https://youtu.be/1xRrk-cYU-E?t=647)

---

The Nation: "Who Is Funding Canary Mission? Inside the Doxxing
Operation Targeting Anti-Zionist Students and Professors.. Americans
who give money to Canary Mission are potentially committing a serious
crime by acting as agents of a foreign power.. Canary Mission [is] a
massive blacklisting and doxxing operation directed from Israel that
targets students and professors critical of Israeli policies, and then
launches slanderous charges against them—charges designed to embarrass
and humiliate them and damage their future employability"

[[-]](https://www.thenation.com/article/world/canary-mission-israel-covert-operations/)

---

"@EU_Commission@social.network.europa.eu

The wait is finally over. From 2024, USB-C will be the common standard
for electronic devices in the EU – and we have already seen the
impact!

It means 

🔌The same charger for all phones, tablets and cameras 

⚡ Harmonised fast-charging technology 

🔄Reduced e-waste 
 
One charger to rule them all. 

Now, a reality"

<img width='340' src='https://social.network.europa.eu/system/media_attachments/files/111/534/243/518/875/569/small/6187e248ddd111cf.jpeg'/> 

---

"The Web is Fantastic.. The real web is built on links. Hyper ones, in
fact. Links you can share on your website. Links you can send to your
mates. Links to pages that can be indexed by search engines so you can
find things again..

The big social media sites have decided that actually no, we don't
like links. Just sort of "find" things and if you don't find it well
tough shit. Sharing interesting websites, blogs, and articles on your
own site is the way to go. Make a blogroll. Make a podroll. Share
links on your Mastodon account...

Blogs and RSS never died. Some of us just took a little break from it
while we all shitposted on Twitter for likes, retweets, and
validation. While we wrote long, unfindable threads instead of blog
posts. I'm as guilty of this as anyone"

[[-]](https://rknight.me/blog/the-web-is-fantastic/)

---

WION: "The Hamas-run Gaza Strip's health ministry said Wednesday the
death toll from the war with Israel now tops 21,000"

---

Recent frontline changes, 12/13 - 12/30

[[-]](../../mbl/2024/ukrmap1.html)

---

"@forrestbrazeal@hachyderm.io

Did someone say 'AIOps'?"

[[-]](https://media.hachyderm.io/media_attachments/files/109/903/487/374/261/366/small/3c0524d85eb1d539.png)

---

NYT: "[C]ritics both within Israel and outside have questioned whether
resolving to destroy such a deeply entrenched organization [as Hamas]
was ever realistic. One former Israeli national security adviser
called the plan 'vague'. 'I think that we have reached a moment when
the Israeli authorities will have to define more clearly what their
final objective is,' President Emmanuel Macron of France said this
month. 'The total destruction of Hamas? Does anybody think that’s
possible? If it’s that, the war will last 10 years.' Since it first
emerged in 1987, Hamas has survived repeated attempts to eliminate its
leadership. The organization’s very structure was designed to absorb
such contingencies, according to political and military
specialists. In addition, Israel’s devastating tactics in the Gaza war
threaten to radicalize a broader segment of the population, inspiring
new recruits"

---

.. and modern cosmologists don't understand empirical [evidence](../../2022/10/the-big-bang.html).

"@medigoth@qoto.org

One common feature of various anti-science ideologies is that their
adherents lack a sense of scale. FlatEarthers don’t understand
distance, creationists don’t understand time"

---

Andersen: "As antitrust enforcement was discredited and enfeebled
starting in the 1970s, big corporations were able to get so big and
dominant in their business or regions that they had ever fewer
companies directly competing with them to hire workers. More and more
of them became the only games in town. One of the scholars who has
helped expose this particular bit of rigging and its unfairness over
the last several decades is the influential, idiosyncratic University
of Chicago law professor Eric Posner. As he and his economist
co-author Glen Weyl explain, antitrust laws were enacted to make sure
that businesses compete in every way—not just as sellers setting the
prices they charge for products and services, but also as buyers of
labor setting the salaries they pay.

The appeal of antitrust for citizens was to make sure competition kept
prices lower and salaries higher. Enforcement of our antitrust laws,
however, has come to focus entirely on consumer prices, particularly
since the definitive Borking of the field in the late 1970s. The
antitrust enforcers at the Department of Justice and Federal Trade
Commission, because they rely 'on the traditional assumption that
labor markets are competitive,' and that it wasn’t their jobs to
protect workers anyhow, 'have never blocked a merger because of its
effect on labor,' and they don’t even employ experts who could
calculate those effects"

---

TDB: "I Served in the IDF in the 2014 War in Gaza. The Friends I Lost
There Should Have Been the Last Ones. Almost every old friend I run
into talks to me about Gaza. Most of them are in therapy to help them
let go of what they experienced there—most of them unsuccessfully. We
are the soldiers who served the Israeli concept of 'managing the
conflict' and the endless rounds-of-fighting policy"

---

"@brucelawson@vivaldi.net

Stop making fun of older kids who still believe in Santa Claus, there
are grown men who still believe in trickle down housing and that
market can solve the housing crisis"

---

Trailers look good *Land of Bad*, *The Bricklayer*, *Civil War*

---

"@blogdiva@mastodon.social

if all streaming services in the United States are now charging you
to watch ads, then they aren't streaming services. they are cable TV
channels. FCC needs to do their job and regulate these fake
internet companies as they are supposed to regulate cable & legacy
broadcast tv stations"

---

\#Gaza

[[-]](https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/658/984/465/793/066/small/4036bbaefb4521ee.png)

---

TASS: "Israeli military assaulting Jalazone refugee camp"

---

Al-Monitor: "Tehran said it had finalized an agreement with Moscow to
eliminate the US dollar from bilateral trade"

---

Al-Monitor: "South Africa files ICJ case accusing Israel of 'genocidal acts' in Gaza"

---

NYT: "Israel-Hamas War: Deadly Strike Hits Southern Gaza Area Where Many Are Sheltering"

---
