# Week 7

Andersen: "As the right marched on victoriously through the end of the
1980s and into the 1990s, even what appeared to be occasional
reversals weren’t really setbacks for the economic right. For
instance, just after rejecting Bork, the same Democratic-majority
Senate promptly and unanimously confirmed Reagan’s choice of Anthony
Kennedy for that Supreme Court seat. Justice Kennedy is known today as
a moderate because of his liberal votes on abortion and gay rights,
but on economic questions—concerning unions, campaign spending,
regulation—he was for thirty years an absolutely reliable hard-line
supporter of big business"

---

They'll decontext the shit out of you..  'Russians are war-like' as if
a typical Russian wakes up everyday and the first thing on their mind
is 'whose ass am I gonna kick today?'. Like it was for Muslims after
9/11, 'they are driven to terrorism', 'they are culturally pathalogical'
blah blah (hint: we need to bomb them, give more money to Lockheed,
Raytheon)

---

Putin went over a lot context in that Tucker interview. The corporate
propaganda against Russia is intense, and a good way to counter US narratives
which likes to [decontextualize](../../2023/11/political-econ-us-mil.html#decontext)
is providing the context. 

---

Stop eating avacado toast if you want your grandkid to own a home on
his multigenerational mortgage.. If you fail, it's all your
fault. Didn't you have enough role models? We gave them to you in all
genders, races, ages, as financiers, managers, superheroes. They
'represented', and 'splained it all to you.. 

---

MLK: "[1961] Call it democracy, or call it democratic socialism, but
there must be a better distribution of wealth within this country for
all God’s children"

---

H2 View: "Calix Limited has completed a Front-End Engineering and
Design (FEED) study on a hydrogen direct reduced iron (H-DRI)
demonstration plant in Australia... The 30,000 tonne per annum Zero
Emissions Steel Technology (ZESTY) H-DRI plant is estimated to produce
near-zero emissions hot briquetted iron (HBI) from low grade iron ore
for AUD$630-800 (USD 410-521) per tonne, according to the FEED study"

<img width='340' src='https://www.h2-view.com/cdn-cgi/image/width=690,height=460,fit=cover,quality=75,metadata=none,format=auto,gravity=auto/https://www.h2-view.com/wp-content/files/39681/shutterstock_326782289-scaled.jpg'/> 

---

First Post: "Will Imran Khan, Nawaz Sharif form unlikely alliance?"

---

First Post: "Pakistan Election: Imran Khan-backed independents lead in
final count"

---

NYT: "Short on Soldiers, Ukraine Debates How to Find the Next Wave of Troops"

---

Here is latest Fukuyama BTW, talking about natural monopolies, regulation..

[[-]](https://youtu.be/FGo8UvSTIF8?t=1673)

---

McManus: "One of the sad truths about American socialist writers
post-1980 is they’ve struggled to reach a wide audience (despite the
fact that there are plenty of societal conditions to be unhappy about,
which could be used to spark a reader’s interest in alternatives to
capitalism). This is in part due to the sheer ideological clout and
vast resources poured into defending neoliberal capitalism at the
climax of the Cold War and after it. This effort was so pervasive that
even many leftists became closet Fukuyamaists, convinced we had
reached 'the end of history.' (As the idea went, after the fall of
Communism, there was simply no better kind of society that could be
envisioned other than Western liberal democracy.)

But.. this failure was also partially a result of the socialist left
retreating into intellectual, artistic, and academic spaces in the
aftermath of failed ’60s radicalism. One consequence of this is that
socialists tended to adopt the tone, style, and expectations aligned
with those communities: writing for a select audience that valued
dense intellectualism, self-conscious novelty, and insular
referentiality over more democratic and popular styles"

---

"@LilMissBarbie

Bitch the fuck?

It's ILLEGAL to build sidewalks or pedestrian spaces in murica?

You guys killed the natives for that?"

---

"@NoMansSkyWasAlright

I had a similar thought when I was at the Opryland resort for a
conference. Like, you go outside and it's parking lot as far as the
eye can see (that's a bit of an exaggeration. But was able to do my
morning 3 mile runs without ever leaving the parking lot) but the
inside is this super nice, walkable, "outside inside" place. It would
be kind of cool if we could build places like that in the US"

---

"@PulmonaryEmphysema

Yup. Same thing in Canada. Zoning laws actively make this impossible
to build. Funnily enough, building more strip malls with 5 acres of
asphalt per store is totally A-ok"

---

"@definitely_not

Yep, midrise mixed use developments with minimal parking are not legal
to build anywhere in most cities in the US, and where they are
allowed, are strictly limited"

---

"@twoiko

Big business does tho"

---

"@ArticleEcstatic1448

In America, nobody wins"

---

"GUlysses@reddit

Most true in Orlando and Vegas. Also San Antonio. The Riverwalk is the
most popular tourist destination in Texas. Americans will eat at
overpriced chain restaurants just to experience some walkability"

---

Julian Briggs: "Las Vegas is so funny because it's just putting
walkable urban spaces from around the world indoors since it's illegal
to build actual places like this in the US"

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/916/825/508/494/409/original/8e5288d0611d29c8.png)

---

"@TheWarOnCars@mastodon.social

Anne Hidalgo: 'Cars Will Not Return To the Eiffel Tower' after the
Olympic Games.

'The Trocadéro will be greened and the Pont d'Iéna pedestrianized, up
to the Champ de Mars, which will be reforested. The whole thing will
form a large park in the heart of Paris'"

---

CNBC: "Egypt threatens to suspend key peace treaty if Israel pushes
into Rafah on its border, officials say"

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SvVHDhNDalY" title="Israeli police clash with angry anti-Netanyahu protesters | DW News" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Motorious: "BMW Shifts Focus to Hydrogen Power.. In a significant
shift within the automotive industry, BMW is reportedly pivoting away
from electric vehicles (EVs), turning its attention to hydrogen fuel
cell technology as a groundbreaking alternative for sustainable
transportation. Amid the burgeoning popularity of EVs,
hydrogen-powered vehicles, which have largely been in the background,
are now emerging as a significant contender in the eco-friendly
vehicle market"

<img width='340' src='https://www.motorious.com/content/images/size/w600/2024/02/bmw-i-series-ix5-hydrogen-sp-desktop.jpg'/> 

---

Hampton Hawes - Tune Axle Grease \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/MK4-4s2teJI)

---

"Dressed for the parade not for the battle"

---

Axios: "The outlook for hydrogen-powered vehicles is
improving.. thanks to unprecedented federal support.. General Motors
and Honda have started producing fuel cells at a factory near Detroit,
to power a new plug-in hybrid fuel cell version of Honda's CR-V
crossover utility coming this spring.

- They'll also go into a line of hydrogen-powered cement mixers, dump
  trucks, garbage trucks and more that GM is developing with Autocar
  Industries, a heavy truck manufacturer.

- And GM has a new joint venture with Komatsu to develop fuel
  cell-powered mining trucks"

---

Even Republicans in US weren't shy of using non-free-market solutions
before neoliberalism, see Nixon in 1971. Wage/Price control doesn't
have to be permanent, do it for a short time, break the cycle in terms
of psychology.

---

How to kill hyperinflation? For a short-period of time, institute
price controls on the supply-side, wage freezes on the demand side. Do
this for a year, and watch inflation fall like a rock. Inflation has
to do with excessive money circulation among the regular people, money
chasing regular everyday items, a freeze on both supply and demand on
those items will fix the issue.

---

Half-assed intervention, raising wages to match inflation will make
inflation worse

---

McManus, Current Affairs: "It really is the case that home ownership
is becoming unattainable for everyone without a trust fund, our planet
is facing a serious environmental crisis, and economic elites do in
fact wield tremendously outsized influence relative to ordinary
citizens. Uber-rich bros like real estate CEO and multi-millionaire
Tim Gurner may try to blame this discontent on too much avocado toast
or 'arrogant' workers, but many of us right now have adopted an 'it’s
not me, it’s you' attitude towards what we call neoliberal
capitalism—a state of arrangements in which profit is prioritized
above human needs, personal grit and developing 'a brand called you'
are deemed more important than social welfare policies, and the state
and the private sector work hand in hand to enrich corporations and
billionaires at the expense of the rest of us"

---

