# Week 20

"After achieving the first circumnavigations of the globe in a balloon
and more recently in a solar aircraft, Swiss explorer Bertrand Piccard
unveils his new emission-free project: a green hydrogen-powered
airplane to fly non-stop around the Earth, demonstrating how concrete
solutions can help build a cleaner and more efficient world. With
science company Syensqo as the main partner of this technological,
environmental and human adventure, the limits of innovation will be
pushed back to enable the development of the airplane, built in France
by engineer and navigator Raphaël Dinelli"

<img width='340' src='https://www.aviation24.be/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Climate-Impulse-768x432.jpg'/> 

---

Xinhua: "China has successfully developed its first 100-kilogram class
vehicle-mounted liquid hydrogen system, marking a new breakthrough in
the country's transportation sector, according to its developer China
Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC). As one of the
core components of liquid hydrogen heavy trucks, the new system is
fully domestically produced and will help hydrogen-powered heavy
trucks achieve an improved range of over 1,000 kilometers with just
one [fueling]"

---

China Daily: "Future rides on hydrogen energy industry.. Sichuan
province is going all out to support the hydrogen energy industry's
development. This follows a conference held in late April on further
promoting the application of the hydrogen industry chain... China's
10,000-ton-level photovoltaic hydrogen production project in Xinjiang
has participated in transactions totaling over 100 million
kilowatt-hours of electricity and is steadily moving toward
full-capacity production. More companies have seen the optimistic
prospects and are actively collaborating to promote industry upgrades.
Buses and heavy trucks are increasingly running on hydrogen, and
Jiaxing Port in East China's Zhejiang province is seeing large-scale
deployment of hydrogen energy heavy trucks"

---

NGT News: "Wrightbus Secures Order for 46 Hydrogen Buses from German City"

---

*Evil Geniuses*: "Even Richard Posner, the pioneering conservative
scholar and senior federal judge.. admitted in 2017 that it has all
gone too far... As a member of Congress, he said, 'you are a slave to
the donors. They own you. That’s [the] real corruption, the ownership
of Congress by the rich.' And the Supreme Court’s Citizens United
decision in 2010, the conservative majority’s view that 'there’s no
such thing as spending too much money to support a political
candidate, because your money is actually speech—that’s all nonsense,'
but as a result, apart from passing a constitutional amendment, 'there
isn’t anything the government can do [about regulating campaign
finance] now'"

---

"@derf@social.skyshaper.org

Good: nowadays Deutsche Bahn is providing official APIs for station
boards, journeys, routing, etcetera.

Bad: it's an absolute capitalistic hellscape of an offer, starting at
5,000 € / year and going up to 90,000 €/y. Good riddance, Open Data.

I am aware that the root of the problem is likely a combination of
politics/legislation/contractual issues and not Deutsche
Bahn. Regardless, it sucks"

---

"@eb@social.coop

I swear that making everything electronic sucked the life out of
cars. Electronic steering, pedals, paddles, shift levers INFOTAINMENT
etc ugh"

---

"@eb@social.coop

The 2007 Subaru Legacy drives better than most modern cars"

---

I wasn't picking on Neil Foei Gras Tyson; he is trained scientist, had
some good takes on private vs public finance of space exploration back
when... I can't say guy is any more or less annoying than the current
crop of science popularizers out there, many of whom keep pulling
unverified theories out of their asses, multiverses, string theory, to
name a few... I only stated Tyson's claim to fame was based on a
falsehood, but then again, which science character is completely
deserving of the limelight they have? What did Brian Greene achieve?
Sean Carroll? The theories they blurt out remain unproven, in
Carroll's case cannot *be* proven. It's all bunch of scifi-friendly
non-falsifiable non-sense. Quite unscientific if you ask me.

---

F24: "Russian forces attack Ukraine's northeast Kharkiv region, opening
new front"

---

F24: "UN General Assembly overwhelmingly backs Palestinian bid for
membership"

---

