# Week 19

"Provaris Energy launches $2M share purchase plan for European
hydrogen projects.. 'Our unique approach for a hydrogen supply chain
using the simplicity and energy efficiency of compression can deliver
first hydrogen gas to Europe at a competitive cost using Provaris'
H2Neo carriers,' said.. CEO Martin Carolan"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Two CIP projects successful in the first European
Hydrogen Bank auction"

---

Is this fascism

"@breadandcircuses@climatejustice.social

This post apparently got Gary Girod banned from Xitter...

'@girod_gary@twitter.com

If there's an oil crisis & and oil companies are making record
profits, a healthcare crisis & healthcare companies are making record
profits, a financial crisis & finance companies are making record
profits, then the companies are the crisis'"

---

"Heat Death of the Internet"

[[-]](https://www.takahe.org.nz/heat-death-of-the-internet/)

---

FDR was a great leader, achieved many things, but he also clearly
exploited a willingness on the part of the wealthy who were scared of
the circumstances of the time.

"If the wealthy class allowed a lot of concessions post 20s what did
FDR truly achieve on his own?"

---

This is the famous Princeton study by Gilens et al

Paper: "[2014, Our] analysis indicates that economic elites and
organized groups representing business interests have substantial
independent impacts on U.S. government policy, while average citizens
and mass-based interest groups have little or no independent
influence. The results provide substantial support for theories of
Economic-Elite Domination and for theories of Biased Pluralism, but
not for theories of Majoritarian Electoral Democracy or Majoritarian
Pluralism"

[[-]](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/perspectives-on-politics/article/testing-theories-of-american-politics-elites-interest-groups-and-average-citizens/62327F513959D0A304D4893B382B992B)

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 04/28 - 05/06

[[-]](ukrdata/map16.html)

---

Reuters: "UK's Boris Johnson, who introduced voter ID rule, forgets
his while voting"

---

Maritime Executive: "Belgium and Namibia to Develop Africa’s First
Hydrogen Ship, Infrastructure"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/096/195/556/original/13c28763fb5437c3.jpg'/> 

---

The cavalry was obviously a government insitution, created by the Act
of Congress on 3 August 1861!

---

The lawless wild west.. Gun slingers living on their own
wits.. fightin them Indians.. But they are oh so happy when the
cavalry arrives aren't they? [insert the sound of bugle call here].

---

Extreme left is good, eg a left-wing party could want to tax the rich
at 30%, than an extreme econ leftist can say "no, tax them at
90%!". That would be great.

---

Seinfeld blames 'PC crap' for lack of good comedy, he is right (except
some other wording he used, he blamed 'extreme left' when he should've
said extreme *social* left). The tent-pole comedy shows with wide
appeal have gone MIA.

---

PSI is proportional to youth bulge $A_{20-29}$, also urbanization
$\frac{N_{urb}}{N}$, and working class wage - makes sense

---

PSI is inversely related to $\epsilon$, elite munee, and directly
related to elite numbers $e$. So increasing elite numbers increase
stress, decreasing elite munee increase stress too.. Binness starts
going bad for the top, they cause trouble within society.

---

*Age of Discord* Figure 13.1 shows elite numbers in US, 13.6 estimated
political stress indicator. Reproduced it below (along with some
math). Elite overproduction, combined with decreasing living standards is an
explosive mix.

[[-]](../../2024/05/age-of-discord-math.html)

---

"@nickbano

At a bookshop talk for ‘Against Landlords’ in Edinburgh last night, a
landlord complained that the event might breach hate crime laws. So if
you never hear from me again it’s because I’ve been arrested and
thrown in a Scottish jail"

---

Accompanying code was in R. It will be Pythonized

---

Dr. Turchin thankfully sent a link to *Age of Discord* data.. 

---

<img width='200' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/112/370/031/874/031/984/original/832a04599f967cbb.png'/> 

---

BBC: "Israeli government says it will block Al Jazeera from broadcasting"

---

Documentary: "Prime Minister Rabin [started a] peace process with the
Palestinian Liberation Organization or PLO. Netanyahu who was at the
time leader of the right-wing Likud party attacked Rabin for signing
the Accords he compared the [talks] to the 1938 Munich agreement in
which the British government seated parts of Czechoslovakia to
Hitler's Germany.  'You are worse than Chamberlain' Netanyahu said to
Rabin in the Israeli Knesset 'he endangered another nation but you are
doing it to your own nation'. Netanyahu regularly appeared at
anti-Rabin rallies as the right-wing protesters burned effigies of
Rabin they shouted 'Death to Rabin' and 'with blood and fire we will
banish Rabin'. The crowds even started to harass Rabin outside his
residence they went so far as to target Rabin's wife Leia, taunting
her with shouts like 'you will be strung up like Mussolini'.. The
protests were so extreme the other leaders within Netanyahu's Likud
party became squirmish and abandoned the rallies but not Netanyahu who
continued to show up and stay at anti-Rabin protests, he did not
flinch and continued to make speeches adding further fuel to the
flames. After Yesak Rabin was assassinated by a right-wing extremist,
everyone within the Israeli media knew the responsibility Netanyahu
bore in creating the climate of hate and fear that led to the death of
their prime minister"

---

Diehl: "[We are] dropping bombs from the sky on Gaza that blow little
children to bits to maintain this system. Why? Because there is gas
and oil in the Mediterranean Sea west of Gaza, and we want it. Chevron
is there. According to the industry, the Levantine Basin holds
approximately 1.7 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 122 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable gas. Woo-hoo. Party.

This explains the barbaric assault on the tiny, open air concentration
camp, its back against the sea called the Gaza Strip... October 7
created flimsy cover for Netanpsycho yahoo to justify the slaughter
and starving of women and children, and the murder of journalists and
aid workers trying to bring truth and save lives"

---

Arab News: "’Show solidarity’: Pro-Palestinian protesters camp across
Australian universities"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Spain, Portugal take home most of €720m EU hydrogen
award"

---

Renewable Economy: "The troubled Australian electric vehicle fast
charging company Tritium has collapsed after its directors declared it
to be insolvent, voluntary administrators were appointed and its
lenders called in receivers. The spectacular collapse of a
Brisbane-based start-up that managed to grab a major share of the
global EV fast charging market and was once valued at $2 billion will
come as a shock to the industry"

---

The Lever: "Congress May Cancel Your Automatic Flight
Refunds.. Airline-bankrolled lawmakers just advanced a bill that could
undermine Biden’s promise of automatic refunds on canceled or delayed
flights... The lawmakers are four of the six largest congressional
recipients of campaign cash from the airline industry in the current
election cycle, according to data from the government transparency
group OpenSecrets"

---

TASS: "Russia’s Battlegroup Dnepr wipes out 40 Ukrainian drone control
centers in 24 hours"

---

NYT: "Israeli Officials Weigh Sharing Power With Arab States in
Postwar Gaza"

---

Al-Monitor: "Hamas official says group will not accept truce that does
not end Gaza war"

---

Hindustan Times World: "Evergreen State College [Washington].. becomes
first US uni to completely divest from Israel"

---

Politico: "‘Biden’s Vietnam’: Progressive lawmakers warn not to repeat
campus protest history"

---

