# Week 6

Motley Fool: "[2020] Through the years, famed investor and billionaire
Warren Buffett has criticized the tax system and made it clear that he
feels that the wealthy should be paying more. In a famous interview,
Buffett expressed frustration with the fact that he actually pays a
lower tax rate on his income than his secretary...  why is it that
Buffett himself doesn't pay more tax? It's because the bulk of his
income comes from dividends and long-term capital gains, which are
taxed at a much lower rate than ordinary income"

[[-]](https://www.fool.com/taxes/2020/09/25/why-does-billionaire-warren-buffett-pay-a-lower-ta/)

---

"@SynAck@corteximplant.com

It continues to mystify me how large swaths of the tech community have
latched onto generative ML as being 'ready to be built on top of' - as
if the correctness of these models is a foregone conclusion - when not
only is there so much evidence to the contrary but even the creators
and minders of these models will admit (but only amongst themselves)
that they're broken and are wrong more often than they're right.

There's no critical thinking on the part of the model users as to
whether these things work for them; they just take Altman et al's word
for it because they're "visionaries" [facepalm]"

---

Hansford, Aviation Consultant, \#ABC AU: "When you start killing that
number of people in the number of crashes [Boeing] had, in most
countries other than United States you wouldn't survive.  The stock
market would pillory you. But in America they seem to get away with
it, because Boeing is a producer of defense equipment"

---

"John Cusack says he’s being shadow-banned on Twitter/X. His account
does not appear in searches when looking for on the site, Newsweek
reported."

---

Maybe the future will be as depicted in *Idiocracy* but for the online
world. Public discourse will be filled with this stupid garbage,
artificial morons talking at eachother feeding off of each others
parroty talk. And the stock prices of related companies will rise
because the wealthy have nowhere else to put their money, at the same
time, widespread homelessness becomes permanent.

---

"@jsrailton@mastodon.social

\#Twitter's \#AI \#bot problem:

Pic 1: \#spam account posts likely AI-generated *description* of an
image without the image.

Pics 2-4

Swarms of blue-check verified bots reply with equally generated
replies complimenting the nonexistent image.

[Pic 1](https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/869/860/903/832/785/small/400abd8296beac71.png),
[Pic 2](https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/869/863/489/102/239/small/755689b066bf01a4.png),
[Pic 3](https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/869/862/207/318/490/small/91fcb7439fae9e10.png),
[Pic 4](https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/111/869/864/221/295/763/small/7ec3558c1ccaf1ad.png)

---

"@bushidosquirrel

Uber: we can't make money if we have to follow the law

Google: we can't make money if we're not allowed to be a monopoly

Nestle: we can't make money without using slave labor

OpenAI: we can't make money if we can't steal

Media: should shoplifters be executed?"

---

Arab News: "Almost immediately after he walked into the Oval Office on
his first day as president, Joe Biden began rolling back his
predecessor’s immigration policies, which he had assailed throughout
the 2020 campaign as harsh and inhumane. A lot has changed in three
years.  Biden, now sounding increasingly like former President Donald
Trump, is pressing Congress for asylum restrictions that would have
been unthinkable when he took office. He’s doing it under pressure not
just from Republicans but from Democrats, including elected officials
in cities thousands of miles from the border who are feeling the
effects of asylum seekers arriving in the United States in record
numbers"

---

The Intercept: "State Department declares 'ethnic cleansing' in Sudan
but won’t say the same about Israel’s war in Gaza.. The U.S. risks
complicity with Israeli atrocities, experts say"

[[-]](https://theintercept.com/2024/02/04/israel-gaza-sudan-atrocity-determination/)

---

Truthout: "After Belgium Refused to Cut Off UNRWA Funding Israel
Bombed Its Gaza Aid Office"

---

The Guardian: "UK manufacturers hit by Red Sea disruption and rising
shipping costs"

---

The Guardian: "The music rights company BMG is parting ways with the
Pink Floyd co-founder Roger Waters over comments he made about Israel,
Ukraine and the United States"

---

Salon: "[2023] Corporate landlords reap big profits as rents in many
U.S. cities soar by double digits.. Six biggest property management
companies in U.S. made $1.3 billion more in 2022 on inflated rents and
extra fees"

---

The Lever: "Blinken Stranded After Davos By Boeing, His Old
Client.. The Secretary of State previously advised the airline
manufacturer; on his return from the World Economic Forum, he ran into
one of its troubled 737 planes"

---

"@VeryBadLlama

Companies: we are committed to working towards a greener future.. Also
companies: hi i know your entire job can be done from your couch but
we really need you to go back to idling in traffic 10 times per week
because Brian needs to time your bathroom breaks to feel alive"

---

I did a rough data analysis a while back, looked at a weighted market
cap of top 20 defense contractors, and saw their cap skyrocketed not
after 9/11 but after Egypt and Syria. If it is true it is bad news for
us, the world, because the bleepers learned a new trick.. There was
always death squads, provocations and the like but the widespread
chaos after Egypt, Syria was something else..  

---

There is always the next bright shiny object to chase in tech.
Inequality is partly to blame here; too much money sloshing around the
system looking for things to invest in. Even if there was nothing,
some people would create buzz around any bullshit tech to get a piece
of that excess wealth. One day that new buzz is "the blockchain",
sometimes "AI". After that it will be something else. 

---

Andersen: "In the 1988 primary, Jesse Jackson ran as a full-on
leftist, calling for single-payer healthcare, free community college,
a big federal jobs program, and the cancellation of Reagan’s tax cuts
for the rich—and by sweeping the black South and winning everywhere
among voters under thirty, he beat Joe Biden and Gore and came in
second to Dukakis, but…he was never going to be nominated... In 1992,
when Clinton won the nomination, his only serious competitors were two
fellow New Democrats, Brown and Tsongas. Democrats had settled into
their role as America’s economically center-right party. There was no
organized, viable national economic left in the vicinity of power"

---

Declassified UK: 

- "Israel and US may be using American air bases in
England to move weapons to the country being investigated for genocide
by the World Court

- Israeli military aircraft have landed in Glasgow, Birmingham as well
as RAF bases in Suffolk and Oxfordshire since 7 October 

- Ministry of Defence tells Declassified: “We cannot comment on or
provide information relating to foreign nations’ military aircraft
movements or operations.”

- US Air Force flew huge C-17 military transport vehicle directly from
Israeli military base to Turkey on 23 January"

---

Adam F-ing Smith was against excessive profits. Maybe some people
misinterpreted the "free" in the free markets he talked about.

Boucoyannis, LSE Blogs: "[W]hy has inequality been naturalized? This
is where influential master-narratives of the market are so
consequential in shaping public beliefs—from the 1970s anti-tax
narratives that frame government intervention as a violation of free
market principles to the original text that defined market discourse,
the Wealth of Nations itself. Adam Smith is assumed even by his most
progressive interpreters to have accepted inequality as the necessary
trade-off for a more prosperous economy...

But the assumption is wrong. As I show in my article, the building
blocks of Smith’s economic system do not allow the concentration of
wealth—not due to normative constraints, but to how the blocks are set
up in his theory to maximize the 'wealth of nations.' Further, even in
neo-classical economics, in a competitive economy with no entry
barriers, profits should decline over the long term, so profit
concentration is not an equilibrium prediction. Yet high firm profits,
for instance, are treated as a sign of economic success that have to
be sustained over time...

In Smith, profits should be low and labor wages high, legislation in
favor of the worker is 'always just and equitable,' land should be
distributed widely and evenly, inheritance laws should partition
fortunes, taxation can be high if it is equitable, and the science of
the legislator is necessary to thwart rentiers and manipulators...

The key principles of Smith’s system work against the concentration of
wealth—they also speak to the top issues in economic policy today:
profits, taxes, and the minimum wage. First, Smith thought high
profits denoted economic pathology. The rate of profit, he said, was
'always highest in the countries which are going fastest to ruin.'

[[-]](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/adam-smith-and-inequality/)

---
