# Week 42


Radboud University: "Don’t believe the hype: AGI is far from
inevitable.. Creating artificial general intelligence (AGI) with
human-level cognition is ‘impossible’, explains Iris van Rooij, lead
author of the paper and professor of Computational Cognitive
Science.. at Radboud University. ‘Some argue that AGI is possible in
principle, that it’s only a matter of time before we have computers
that can think like humans think. But principle isn’t enough to make
it actually doable. Our paper explains why chasing this goal is a
fool’s errand, and a waste of humanity’s resources.’.. ‘There will
never be enough computing power to create AGI using machine learning
that can do the same, because we’d run out of natural resources long
before we'd even get close,’ [coworker] Olivia adds"

[[-]](https://www.ru.nl/en/research/research-news/dont-believe-the-hype-agi-is-far-from-inevitable)

---

La Playa by GoldFish and Luisah \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/DQJdJyQxm6w)

---

News 12 Brooklyn: "A significant fire broke out in Ocean Hill early
this morning resulting in a major response from the FDNY.  It took 60
EMS and fire personnel to put out the flames outside a building on
Atlantic Avenue, the FDNY tells News 12.  A lithium-ion battery was
found at the scene"

---

Michael Dorn (Worf) was in Rocky 1? And I saw him in an early Trek
movie (with orig. series cast) early 90s, as a Klingon attorney. It
looks like he had more cred on that TNG set than any other actor save
perhaps P. Stewart (who was in *Dune* earlier).

---

Most media missed this part - European explorer system was on the same
launch, and ESA's equipment will look at all the moons of Jupiter.

ESA: "What’s better than one spacecraft on the quest to search for
life-friendly ocean worlds in the Jupiter system? Two! ESA’s Jupiter
Icy Moons Explorer (Juice) is set to join forces with NASA’s Europa
Clipper – launched on 14 October – to tackle one of the biggest
questions in Solar System science..

The Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer, or Juice for short, will look at
Jupiter and its largest moons as a complete system, to understand how
potentially life-friendly worlds could form around gas giants. The
mission has a special emphasis on Ganymede, even spending part of its
journey orbiting around the moon. This will make it the first
spacecraft to ever orbit a moon in the outer Solar System"

---

It's been uniparty rule since the 80s; it's been Reagan, his VP,
Southern Ronald Reagan, Reagan's VP's son, then black Bill
Clinton. And people wonder "why o'why did we end up with Trump?". 

---

Declassified UK: "Israel’s largest arms firm Elbit Systems is finally
losing money at its drone engine factory near Birmingham,
England. This follows years of campaigning by Palestine Action, a
group I co-founded in 2020. Back then, Elbit’s subsidiary UAV Engines
was making millions of pounds in profit with an £11m turnover.

That was until we showed up. Palestine Action has staged over 20
protests at the firm’s factory in Shenstone, blockading the gates,
occupying the roof and smashing up equipment. We did this because
Elbit makes 85% of Israel’s drone fleet terrorising Gaza, including
the Hermes armed drones from which even British aid workers are not
safe.

And although UAV Engines claim that it produces components solely for
the British army, trade licence data shows it exports drone parts to
Israel. For decades this business, which Elbit turned from a motorbike
manufacturer to an arms firm in the mid-1990s, has been consistently
profitable.

But its latest accounts show the company is now in the red"

---

Politico: "Macron warned.. Netanyahu not to 'ignore United Nations
decisions' during a weekly meeting with his ministers Tuesday,
according to French media reports.. 'Mr. Netanyahu must not forget
that his country was created by a U.N. decision,' he is quoted as
saying, referencing the U.N. General Assembly's November 1947 vote"

---

LA Fire Department: "A big rig overturned in San Pedro near the Port
of Los Angeles, causing damage to lithium-ion battery cargo and
causing a fire that burned for days"

[[-]](https://lafd.org/news/lithiumion-batteries-burn-days-after-san-pedro-big-rig-crash)

---

They ain't gon negotiate on those areas. "I'll give you Kursk if you
give me Zaphorizhia?". Nah. These are fairy tales.

---

Ukraine keeps extending the frontline - incursion in Kursk, additional
areas west of it.. But I don't think it matters for Russia - it is
meat grinder work for them all the same, degrading Ukrainian forces,
so it is de-facto demilitarized.

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 10/08 - 10/15

[[-]](ukrdata/map39-ext.html)

---

Trump: "We're going to stop autonomous vehicles from operating on
American roads"

---

Jewish people aren't particularly smart.. no more or less than any
other group anyway. Any seeming advantage is due to academic
[placebo](../../2024/10/blink_gladwell.html). You can motivate yourself by
believing to be a certain way, that can help performance. The reverse
can also happen, see the Gladwell share.

---

Isaacson, *Einstein*: "By now the siren song of a unified theory had
come to mesmerize Einstein... On his steamer ride through Asia, he
polished a new paper and, upon arriving in Egypt in February 1923,
immediately mailed it to Planck in Berlin for publication. His goal,
he declared, was 'to understand the gravitational and electromagnetic
field as one.'  Once again, Einstein’s pronouncements made headlines
around the world.  'Einstein Describes His Newest Theory,' proclaimed
the New York Times.  But this approach led nowhere, just like the
others...

In the world of physics, where quantum mechanics was now accepted,
Einstein and his fitful quest for a unified theory were beginning to
be seen as quaint. But in the popular imagination, he was still a
superstar. The frenzy that surrounded the publication of his January
1929 five-page paper, which was merely the latest in a string of
theoretical stabs that missed the mark, was astonishing. Journalists
from around the world crowded around his apartment building, and
Einstein was barely able to escape them to go into hiding at his
doctor’s villa on the Havel River outside of town. The New York Times
had started the drumbeat weeks earlier with an article headlined
'Einstein on Verge of Great Discovery: Resents Intrusion.'.. 

Even before his little paper was published, he gave an interview about
it to a British newspaper. 'It has been my greatest ambition to
resolve the duality of natural laws into unity,' he said. “The purpose
of my work is to further this simplification, and particularly to
reduce to one formula the explanation of the gravitational and
electromagnetic fields. For this reason I call it a contribution to ‘a
unified field theory’... Now, but only now, we know that the force
that moves electrons in their ellipses about the nuclei of atoms is
the same force that moves our earth in its annual course around the
sun.' Of course, it turned out that he did not know that, nor do we
know that even now.

When [the paper] was released on January 30.. The New York Herald
Tribune decided to print the entire paper verbatim, but it had trouble
figuring out how to cable all the Greek letters and symbols over
telegraph machines.  So it hired some Columbia physics professors to
devise a coding system and then reconstruct the paper in New York,
which they did. The Tribune’ s colorful article about how they
transmitted the paper was a lot more comprehensible to most readers
than Einstein’s paper itself. The New York Times, for its part, raised
the unified theory to a religious level by sending reporters that
Sunday to churches around the city to report on the sermons about
it. 'Einstein Viewed as Near Mystic,' the headline declared...

Theologians and journalists may have been wowed, but physicists were
not. Eddington, usually a fan, expressed doubts. Over the next year,
Einstein kept refining his theory and insisting to friends that the
equations were 'beautiful.'  But he admitted to his dear sister that
his work had elicited 'the lively mistrust and passionate rejection of
my colleagues.'  Among those who were dismayed was Wolfgang
Pauli.

[Later] he turned his attention to yet another revised approach that
would make more headlines but not more headway in solving the great
riddle he had set for himself. 'Einstein Completes Unified Field
Theory,' the New York Times reported on January 23, 1931, with little
intimation that it was neither the first nor would it be the last time
there would be such an announcement. And then again, on October 26 of
that year: 'Einstein Announces a New Field Theory.'.. And so it went,
for another two decades. None of Einstein’s offerings ever resulted in
a successful unified field theory"

---

After he arrived to America they turned him into a celebrity, that
probably did not help his work... He'd made a mistake with GR and that
mistake became entrenched, not reversed, to top it off the next
generation of scientists would try to connect with that broken theory
rather than go back to drawing board and try something else.
Einstein's undeserved celebrity status and US culture's treatment /
expectation of science held back fundamental research for nearly a
century now.

---

Einstein was a good scientist, not 'great'. 

---

Firstpost: "China calls for restraint in Israel-Iran tensions, urges
for permanent ceasefire in Gaza"

---

Informed Comment: "Israelis Burn up Refugee Tents in Central Gaza, as
they Plan Ethnic Cleansing of North"

---

Manufacturers Monthly: "Construction begins on $65 million VIC
renewable hydrogen park...The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association
of Australia (GAMAA) has welcomed a milestone in renewable hydrogen as
construction commenced on the 65.46 million Hydrogen Park Murray
Valley near Wodonga, Victoria"

<img width='340' src='https://www.manmonthly.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/AdobeStock_667048929-768x563.jpeg'/>

---

Politico: "The nation’s housing affordability crisis has become so
acute that even our presidential candidates are paying attention to
it...

But the number of  housing units in the nation has grown faster than
the number of households since the turn of the century. Something else
is happening here.

That’s because demand for real estate is not just about the number of
people who need homes, it’s also about the amount of money buyers are
bringing into the market. People without money cannot push up
prices. It’s the people with money — especially those with a lot of
money — who drive up prices for everyone else"

---

"@andrewdessler@mastodon.world

if only scientists had been predicting this"

<img width='340' src='https://s3.eu-central-2.wasabisys.com/mastodonworld/media_attachments/files/113/295/826/443/187/617/small/68e8fbefee374007.png'/>

---

Schahill, *Blackwater*: "[Naomi] Klein, who traveled to Iraq during
Bremer's tenure in the country and has written extensively on.. the
effects of his edict-based governance as such:

>[Bremer] enacted a radical set of laws unprecedented in their
>generosity to multinational corporations. There was Order 37, which
>lowered Iraq's corporate tax rate from roughly 40 percent to a flat 15
>percent. There was Order 39, which allowed foreign companies to own
>100 percent of Iraqi assets outside of the natural-resource
>sector. Even better, investors could take 100 percent of the profits
>they made in Iraq out of the country; they would not be required to
>reinvest and they would not be taxed. Under Order 39, they could sign
>leases and contracts that would last for forty years. Order 40
>welcomed foreign banks to Iraq under the same favorable terms. All
>that remained of Saddam Hussein's economic policies was a law
>restricting trade unions and collective bargaining...

It seems appropriate, then, that Bremer, the senior U.S. official in
Iraq, the public face of the occupation, would not be protected by
U.S. government forces or Iraqi security but rather by a private
mercenary company"

---

"@antijingoist@hackers.town

Actually yahoo search has been pretty good recently

*changes defaults*"

---

Need I remind people 1979 Iranian revolution saw expulsions and even
execution of a lot of high-ranking officials in the Iranian military,
yet the country was able to fight the Iran-Iraq war that would start
only a year later, with what was left.

---

*Penguin* is still going strong, S01E03.

---

"@sluttymayo@jorts.horse

Modern technology is great. A rich guy will be like 'our new
innovation is an app for ignoring the regulations around something
that already exists. This will let everyone make money via a sort of
petty landlordism'

Then they burn heaps of investor money for like a year while people
start to depend on it because they undercut everything else, then they
just take all the money that the gig workers had been making and turn
those petit landlords back into serfs"

---

Leaders of TR, Czechia, FR have low net approvals.. -30%, -52%, -56%
respectively.. Data for Sept. 25-Oct. 1.

[[-]](https://morningconsult.com/global-leader-approval)

---

"@nobodyinperson@fosstodon.org

Looks like the @unituebingen won't continue its \#Matlab license due
to the high cost and lack of state partners to share the financial
load.

I very much appreciate this! This is money better spent
elsewhere. Teach students \#Python, #Rstats et al., not some weird
proprietary software they can't use freely afterwards.

Now let the heated discussions in the institutes begin 😉 🍿

Glad that we @umphy are using #FOSS"

---

\#MSNBCB \#TaNehisiCoates

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/Had6L6O_KtA?start=216&end=301)

---

Enjoy your rules-based order

---

Let's note the situation is not one of ISR shoots at Hezbollah but
hits UN who are also in the area. No. ISR wants UN out of there, so
they shoot directly at UNIFIL soldiers, to force them out.

---

Hassan Jouni: "[Israel] wants the fighting space to be open to the
Israeli military.. UNIFIL forces [in Lebanon] hold important and
sensitive positions they could hinder the process of the Israeli
military. If they withdraw, these positions could see heavy clashes
between the Israeli army and Hezbollah"

---

The Guardian: "‘Not a normal war’: doctors say children have been
targeted by Israeli snipers in Gaza"

---

Some pushback from SAF. Gains west of Sennar, Khartoum and around Bakhit.

\#Sudan \#SAF \#RSF \#Frontline 09/25 - 10/14

[[-]](sdndata/map6-ext.html)

---

They could've performed tests.. possible. Politically time is right for it.
I'm just saying it's not clear in the data.

---

Quakes together with NPP and other facilities.. Not sure if there is a pattern.

```python
import json
irn = json.loads(open("iran-nuke.json").read())
irn.update(res)
u.map_coords(irn, zoom=7, outfile="map7.html")	    
```

[[-]](map7.html)

---

Locations of quakes, one in the North one in the South

```python
res = dict((k + " magnitude:" + str(v['mag']),
            [v['lat'],v['lon']]) for k,v in df.iterrows())
u.map_coords(res, zoom=4, outfile="map6.html")	    
```

[[-]](map6.html)

---

Data is from USGS.

---

There were not one, but two quakes

```python
df = u.eq_at(35.59431085, 53.395109027, 800, 8)
df
```

```text
Out[1]: 
                     mag      lat      lon  ago
date                                           
2024-10-05 06:29:26  4.1  32.3247  56.4756    8
2024-10-05 22:15:34  4.5  35.3597  52.8989    7
```

---

Earthquakes in Iran.. were they nuclear weapon tests?

---

Al-Monitor: "'Very challenging': Israel faces Hezbollah in tricky
terrain..As Israel undertakes its fourth ground offensive in southern
Lebanon in 50 years, its troops again face rocky terrain mined with
explosives and full of hiding places that previous generations of
soldiers have battled over"

---

F24: "Israel's decision to begin ground attacks against Hezbollah in
Lebanon has sparked a debate about the wisdom of opening up a second
front and presents Israeli soldiers with a different challenge from
the dense urban environment of Gaza. Analysts believe Hezbollah has
built an intricate network of tunnels cut deep into the hills of
southern Lebanon, a tall order for the Israeli military."

---

F24: "Forty nations that contribute to the UN peacekeeping force in
Lebanon said in a statement on Saturday that they 'strongly condemn
recent attacks' on the peacekeepers."

---

