# Week 27

Aviation Week: "Airbusâ€™ Hydrogen Project Is In Full Swing.. Although
ZEROe has yet to become a full-fledged program, Airbusâ€™ plan to have
hydrogen-powered commercial aircraft in service in 2035 is making
significant progress. Ground trials of a fuel cell engine are
achieving positive results. Preparations are underway for fuel cell
engine flight tests"

<img width='340' src='https://aviationweek.com/sites/default/files/styles/crop_freeform/public/2024-07/fia-hydrogen-1-airbus_promo.jpg?itok=OcxqUXvD'/>

---

Bcz there is an M$ product at both ends..? ðŸ˜… too funny

"@yonabee@eldritch.cafe

Microsoft is both sending advertisements to my work email and
automatically categorizing them as spam and quarantining them for
me. Truly the world's most advanced company"

---

The Shidaowan plant is the Chinese take on the HTGR, they call it PBMR
(pebble bed modular reactor) or HTR-PM ( High Temperature gas-cooled
Reactor â€“ Pebble bed Module). The tech looks solid. Hopefully it
spreads within and outside China. 

---

Engineering News: "Graphite is the material used to moderate the
nuclear chain reactions. The fuel is in the form of small spheres
(hence the name â€˜pebble bedâ€™), 60 mm in diameter, each containing 7 g
of low (8.5%) enriched uranium fuel, coated with four layers of
ceramics and graphite. The fuel load for each reactor comprises about
12 000 such pebbles"

---

Business Insider: "[2023/12] China's bragging about being the first to
build a next-generation nuclear reactor...China on Wednesday said the
Shidaowan nuclear reactor is officially contributing to the power
grid... it's the world's first reactor that uses helium, not water.
Nuclear plants often use billions of gallons of water per day, a
problem for water-starved China...

Reactors typically need around 400 to 720 gallons of water for every
megawatt produced for an hour, meaning a single nuclear plant can use
billions of gallons per day. Experimental reactors using helium have
been built before, such as one in Oarai, Japan, but the Shidaowan is
the first to be used commercially"

<img width='340' src='https://i.insider.com/657159f37a3c8094d5da82b4?width=2000&format=jpeg&auto=webp'/>

---

Battery-brain shitlibs are pretty foolish actually. They didn't even
use their own brains to make this judgement btw, one Dem made the
wrong call, and they followed like cattle. Rest of the world copied
because US is a trendsetter, and the suck spread and spread.

---

Sad

Trump: "All they know is electric, they want electric army tanks, they
want electric planes.. they want electric everything every day. They
want electric boats. The problem, the boats, they don't float because
the battery is so heavy. It sinks the boat. They say we don't care. We
want em anyway"

---

Joint Statement: "The Administrationâ€™s policy in Gaza is a failure and
a threat to U.S. national security. Americaâ€™s diplomatic cover for,
and continuous flow of arms to, Israel has ensured our undeniable
complicity in the killings and forced starvation of a besieged
Palestinian population in Gaza. This is not only morally reprehensible
and in clear violation of international humanitarian law and 
U.S. laws, but it has also put a target on Americaâ€™s back..

Critically, this failed policy has not achieved its stated
objectivesâ€”it has not made Israelis any safer, it has emboldened
extremists while it has been devastating for the Palestinian people,
ensuring a vicious cycle of poverty and hopelessness, with all the
implications of that cycle, for generations to come. As a group of
dedicated Americans in service of our country, we insist that there
is another way. In this Statement, we describe the current crisis,
explain what we have seen...

SMSgt Mohammed Abu Hashem, Lily Greenberg Call, Anna Del Castillo,
Stacy Gilbert, Tariq Habash, Maryam Hassanein, Maj Riley Livermore,
MAJ Harrison Mann, Josh Paul, Hala Rharrit, Annelle Sheline, Alexander
Smith"

[[-]](https://jointstatement.tiiny.site/)

---

CNN: "The US government employees who have publicly resigned in
protest of the Biden administrationâ€™s Gaza policies released a joint
statement..  for the first time, stating they 'stand united in a
shared belief that it is our collective responsibility to speak up'
and outlining steps they believe the US government should take. The 12
signatories tendered their resignations at various points over the
course of the nearly nine-month conflict between Israel and Hamas,
with one resigning as recently as Tuesday"

---

We know sanctions as one country (usually US) placing trade
restrictions on another country to punish them. UK is probably the
only country of late that effectively sanctioned itself. They said
"I'm going to punish myself to restrict my trade with my biggest
trading partner". Well how do you like it now, chap?

---

Cons got what they deserved.. This is Brexit the mistake coming home
to roost. 

WaPo: "U.K. election results: Landslide Labour win ends 14 years of
Conservatives"

---

Told ya.. guy got his ass kicked.

London Evening Standard: "Jeremy Corbyn wins Islington North seat by
almost 8,000 votes over Labour candidate"

---

Renewable Energy Magazine: "Mahle Powertrain, the specialist
engineering subsidiary of the Mahle Group, is expanding its
Northampton facility to include a dedicated hydrogen powertrain
testing capability"

---

Euractiv: "Hydrogen sector asks EU to help local firms compete with
China.. European manufacturers of hydrogen equipment have urged the
European Union to step in to help the industry compete with cheaper
Chinese producers, in a letter seen by Reuters"

---

"American Airlines commits to conditional purchase of 100 ZeroAvia
hydrogen-powered engines, increases investment in hydrogen-electric
innovator"

<img width='340' src='https://s202.q4cdn.com/986123435/files/images/thumbs/062624-zero-avia-thumb.jpg'/>

---

TechXplore: "'Nearly sustainable' hydrogen could cut ammonia
production emissions by 95%.. In a study looking at the European
ammonia industry, researchers from the Hong Kong University of Science
and Technology (HKUST) and ETH Zurich have now calculated the
conditions under which it would be worthwhile to switch ammonia
production to green or almost green hydrogen. The research is
published in Nature Communications.

Two results stand out. First, in some European countries such as
Norway, Spain, Hungary or Poland, ammonia production from green or
almost green hydrogen would already make economic sense today. In
these countries, generating sustainable electricity from solar or wind
energy is particularly cost-effective"

---

Gasworld: "Sungrow wins $4bn China hydrogen and ammonia project
bid... Sungrow Hydrogen's 1000Nm/h ALK hydrogen production system will
be applied to the 4bn dollar project, which is expected to produce
110,000 tonnes of green hydrogen, 600,000 tonnes of green ammonia and
60,000 tonnes of green methanol"

---

Enerdata: "World Bank grants US$1.5bn loan to support Indiaâ€™s hydrogen
development"

---

Modern minimalism is great.. SBUX stores are an example, no?

"Minimalist interior design.. involves using the bare essentials to
create a simple and uncluttered space. It's characterised by
simplicity, clean lines, and a monochromatic palette with colour used
as an accent"

[[-]](https://media.tarkett-image.com/medium/IN_41020001_41020002_002.jpg)

---

TV movie *Archangel* had some talking down on Russian history and
culture, Daniel Craig performed his task well like the asset that he
is.

---

De Schutter, *The Guardian*: "Obsession with growth is enriching
elites and killing the planet... In the past four years alone the
worldâ€™s five richest men have more than doubled their fortunes, while
nearly 5 billion people have been made poorer. If current trends
continue, 575 million people will still be trapped in extreme poverty
in 2030 â€“ the deadline set by the worldâ€™s governments to eradicate
it. Currently, more than 4 billion people have no access whatsoever to
social protection"

---

Econ distress must be rising... Was *Squid Game* a sign?

Politico: "Young Men Are Swinging Hard Right in Korea. It's a Warning for America."

---

Looking at its energy footprint it will more likely *contribute* to
climate crisis rather than solve it. And as per finding a solution, it
is likely to suggest to [put glue on your pizza](https://www.businessinsider.com/google-search-ai-overviews-glue-keep-cheese-pizza-2024-5),
and not provide any sane solutions.

"DeepMind Wants to Use AI to Solve the Climate Crisis"

---

The sad thing is the systems aren't even intelligent.

---

Engadget: "Google's greenhouse gas emissions climbed nearly 50 percent
in five years due to AI"

---

\#RU \#UA #Frontline 06/27 - 07/04

[[-]](ukrdata/map25.html)

---

Arab News: "Russia claims control of part of Chasiv Yar, Ukraine
reports heavy fighting"

---

Head-to-head match-ups [are not as](https://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/data-points/poll-hillary-clinton-holds-national-lead-over-donald-trump-n658721)
crucial as the approval number of the incumbent. The other parameters
used in the prediction formula are growth and incumbency.

---

Biden net aproval fell to -20, if it goes down to -23, with GDP 1.5%
growth, the odds become even, 50/50.

[[-]](0119/2015/04/predicting-presidential-elections.html#2024)

---

WION: "Biden heaves a sigh of relief as Democratic governors say we
'have his back'"

---

WION: "Israel-Hamas conflict: Children in Gaza hit hard by dangerous
skin diseases amid prolonged war"

---

NYT: "Israeli Generals, Low on Munitions, Want a Truce in
Gaza..Israel's military leadership wants a cease-fire with Hamas in
case a bigger war breaks out in Lebanon, security officials say"

---

The Economic Times: "World Bank lends $1.5 billion push to power green
hydrogen market.. New Delhi: The World Bank Friday approved a 1.5
billion loan to help India accelerate low-carbon energy development by
promoting a market for green hydrogen as well as electrolysers and
renewable energy penetration"

<img width='340' src='https://img.etimg.com/thumb/msid-111349532,width-300,height-225,imgsize-130822,resizemode-75/green-hydrogen.jpg'/>

---

Racer: "After four seasons of Extreme E, Extreme H will arrive next
year... 'Thereâ€™s never been more need to look into new ways of using
alternative energies than now,' [CEO Agag says]. '.. weâ€™re going to
focus on cars and the use of hydrogen for cars; itâ€™s a championship
that is going to be focused on hydrogen in general.'..

Agag has spoken before about Extreme Hâ€™s ambition to attract energy
companies and tech companies.. manufacturers are once again taking
note, especially as consumer doubts around conventional EVs remain.

'We had a very, very productive meeting a few weeks ago where a very
large number of car manufacturers showed up with great interest for
the championship,' he says. 'I was surprised myself'"

---

But NL is at least part of the EU, we'll give them some brownie points

---

Tulip Mania was out of Holland wasn't it? The first widely recognized
econ bubble of the past 500 yrs.

---

It looks like the rabid trader, plutocracy-based culture also survived
in Netherlands. It's interesting, when we look at all the countries
who are most disturbed by Russia (which descends from a security /
militocratic culture) are the Anglo, and Netherlands..  In relation to
its size and influence, the amt of aid NL supplies to Ukraine is
massive. The issue might be cultural.

---

Turchin: "Gunpowder weapons underwent a rapid evolution during the
fifteenth century.. Small principalities and city-states could no
longer hide behind their walls, which were easily breached by
cannons. Intense military competition between European states weeded
out those that couldnâ€™t raise large armies; produce muskets and
artillery in quantity; and build expensive modern fortifications that
could withstand cannon fire...

The Military Revolution also triggered a revolution in governance and
finance because successful states had to learn how to efficiently
extract and use wealth from their populations.. As a result, medieval
militocracies gradually evolved into ruling classes that combined
military and administrative functions...

[T]hanks to its protected position in the British Isles.. England
dispense[d] with the standing army.. The squirearchy, which started as
a military class, gradually lost its military character and became
simply a class of landowners.. A large merchant class evolved.. the
United Kingdom came to be ruled by an elite that combined economic and
administrative functions... Although most plutocracies rapidly went
extinct, some lingered longer than others... The Netherlands survived
into the twenty-first century, in part thanks to its waterways and
canals"

---

Christian Bruhn (Germany) - Komm' In Fahrt - Der Hansa Pils-Hit \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/tfMTdvQlUH0)

---

Railway Gazette: "Siemens Mobility and its Smart Train Lease
subsidiary have signed a co-operation agreement with Tyczka Hydrogen
to offer fuel cell trains with a full hydrogen supply chain and
appropriate support services.

The partnership announced on June 25 is intended to â€˜pave the way for
a successful transformation of railways towards hydrogen mobilityâ€™,
the companies explained"

---

"Walmart Canada Becomes the First Major Retailer in Canada to Introduce
a Hydrogen Fuel Cell Electric Semi-Truck"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/102/476/109/original/6a84792bc6bc53fa.webp'/> 

---

Fox Business: "Tesla owner says heâ€™s locked out after battery died,
replacement costs $26K.. A Tesla owner in Canada.. is locked out of
his 140,000 vehicle after the battery died, and that the electric
automaker told him a replacement would cost 26,000.. Mario Zelaya
posted a video on TikTok saying his 'piece of trash' Model S died and
that the car is locked, preventing him from being able to get
inside. The caption on the video reads: '26K for a new battery. Locked
out of car. Recalls are needed'"

---

Ruski Brewski \#music

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CNJjPZtYkUw)

---

Have a little Ruski Brewski

<img width='340' src='../2022/ruskibrewski.jpg'/>

---

"@XLCChelt@mastodonapp.uk

Liberals will say 'hey, why don't you lefties stop the "far-right"?'

Because in what is called 'politics', 'left' parties are only allowed
to 'win' if they'll continue all the current economic systems -
capitalism and the wealthy with power and status at the top.

Otherwise the whole establishment's might will get unleashed to stop
them, well before they can make the required real economic change, as
that is what would end their whole scam taking [from] the rest of us"

---

\#EricBerg 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/TI39SNPie_M?t=30)

---

Electrolytes: regulate body's electrical functions. A lot of hidden
ailments are tied to a lack of it: calcium, chloride, magnesium,
potassium, sodium. There are water solubile tablets, easy to
take. Note these elements are not all vitamins, but specific minerals
for neural sys.

---

*Dark Matter*, good show. Its science is unsurprisingly bullshit
(again, multiverse) but by now this is "established Holywood science",
so everyone takes it for granted... But they built a good script on
top. 

---

Joan Westennerg: "6 months ago, I left the bullshit industrial
complex.. I used to be good at spinning stories. Give me a half-baked
startup idea, a semi-charismatic founder and a fistful of VC dollars,
and I could write a story compelling enough it barely mattered whether
there was an ounce of truth in it... [But] I would lie awake at 3 AM,
staring at the ceiling. My life was slipping away, and I had nothing
to show for it but a series of cynical half truths paid for by shit
shovelling wannabe billionaires hell bent on leaving the world worse
off than they found it. I knew I was a part of something poisonous. It
had been years since I'd displayed a shred of journalistic
integrity...

One morning, I sat down at my desk to craft yet another press release
touting yet another 'game-changing' startup that had raised - yet
another - $25 million. And I realized I couldn't remember the last
time I'd written something I believed in. The words that used to flow
felt like trying to squeeze ancient toothpaste from an empty
tube. That was the day I cracked... Somewhere along the way, I'd
allowed my writingâ€”the thing that used to give me purposeâ€”to be
co-opted by the bullshit industrial complex...

I have zero faith in the idea that unfettered vulture capitalism and a
blind pursuit of 'disruption' will lead us to a better world. I've
seen how perverse incentives and boiler room pressure to deliver
exponential growth can warp even the most idealistic founders'
vision. I've watched brilliant minds get sucked into the vortex of
funding rounds and vanity metrics, losing sight of why they started
their companies in the first place"

---

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

Saw a Threads employee liking a Fediverse toot just now - from Threads
back into my Mastodon server - looks like more integration is coming"

---

Could have helped blunt Trump criticism but now it all got drowned out
by that debate stuff.

WION: "The number of migrant crossing along the southern border of the
United States has dropped more than 40 per cent since June 4 when
President Joe Biden announced suspension of new asylum claims"

---

\#SAF \#RSF \#Frontline 04/15 - 07/02

Color red denotes RSF territory. Birdeye view suggests SAF is doing
somewhat better compared to RSF.

[[-]](sdndata/map3.html)

---

"@GeofCox@climatejustice.social

[A]fter the war the allies pretty much imposed the 'Mitbestimmung'
system (worker participation in management) on German industry -
because it was clear that inequality, exploitation and social division
had led to fascism, war, holocaust - but bizarrely failed to adopt it
themselves, even when it became clear it was working better than their
own systems"

---

Monbiot, The Guardian: "Things are not going to get better as long as
oligarchs rule the roost in our democracies.. [Some post-WWII
beneficial] politics were the result of something known to economic
historians as the 'great compression': a drastic reduction in
inequality caused by two world wars. In many powerful countries, a
combination of the physical destruction of assets, the loss of
colonial and overseas possessions, inflation, very high taxes, wage
and price controls, requisitioning and nationalisation required by the
wartime economy, as well as the effects of rising democracy and labour
organisation, greatly reduced the income and assets of the rich. It
also greatly improved, once the wars had ended, the position of the
poor...

[Scheidel] shows how warfare economies have been turned into welfare
economies... For example, following the defeat of Japan, the US
occupation government, led by General Douglas MacArthur, sought what
it called 'the democratization of Japanese economic institutions' to
ensure 'a wide distribution of income and ownership of the means of
production and trade'. To this end, it imposed high property taxes,
with a top marginal rate of 90%; broke up business conglomerates;
demanded a labour union law enabling the right to organise and strike,
and higher wages for workers; organised comprehensive land reform,
which dissolved large holdings and distributed them to peasants; and
introduced fiscal reform that led eventually to taxes on the highest
incomes of 75% and an inheritance tax on the largest estates of
70%. These programmes resulted in the near-total destruction of income
from capital and the creation in Japan of a political and economic
democracy, almost from scratch"

---

Business Insider: "Denver gave people experiencing homelessness $1,000
a month. A year later, nearly half of participants had housing"

---

Homelessness is a direct result of inequality, overpriced assets due to
asset hoarding by corporations and the rich.

However from a regular city dweller POV, the encampments are on public
space that are open to all, but permanent structures on it, however
shoddy, deny others that public space. It's like encampments create
little privatized spaces plundered from the citizenry, for free. The
SCOTUS decision is fine from that angle, long-term fixes on
inequality, and near term help for homeless with public housing would
be good too.

---

BBC: "US Supreme Court allows cities to ban homeless camps"

---

Reshare

WRMEA: "[2022/11] AIPAC Election Role Raises Question of Foreign Agent
Registration.. For the first time, the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee (AIPAC) formed two [PACs] which have set records in their
contributions to candidates in primary election campaigns this year...

AIPAC also launched a super PAC [UDP]..  which initially did not
include any mention of Israel in its 'About Us' statement. As a super
PAC, UDP can accept unlimited donations, but it must disclose its
donors. It cannot fund candidates directly, but it can spend unlimited
amounts advocating for or against candidates. UDP was the biggest
spending political action committee during the primaries and dispensed
more than $24.2 million in support of its favored candidates. Out of
eight candidates backed by UDP, six won their primaries..

Going back to the 1950s, the Eisenhower administration repeatedly
insisted that the American Zionist Council (AZC) register as 'agents
of a foreign government'..

[In his book Grant F. Smith] writes: 'Not until the early 1960s would
the Senate begin to investigate whether U.S. aid sent overseas and
other funds were being secretly laundered back into the U.S. to obtain
political influence and additional foreign aid. In 1963, a close
analysis of [AZC official] I. L. Kenenâ€™s financing revealed that this
was indeed happening'..  The Senate hearings documented the fact that
in the early 1960s, Israel funneled $5 million (more than 35 million
in todayâ€™s dollars) into U.S. propaganda and lobbying operations"

[[-]](https://www.wrmea.org/north-america/aipac-election-role-raises-question-of-foreign-agent-registration.html)

---

"@EUCommission@ec.social-network.europa.eu

Apple's new slogan should be 'act different.'

Today, we informed Apple of our preliminary view that its App Store
rules are in breach of the Digital Markets Act, as they prevent app
developers from freely steering consumers to alternative channels for
offers and content.

We also opened a new non-compliance procedure over concerns that its
new contractual requirements for third-party app developers and app
stores fall short of ensuring effective #DMA compliance"

---

H2 View: "Quantum Dots Boost Photocatalytic Hydrogen Production.. A
paper recently published in the journal Applied Sciences reviewed the
application of quantum dots for photocatalytic [H2]
production.. Carbon quantum dots possess unique electrical and optical
properties.. [they] serve as electron reservoirs to prevent charge
carrier recombination and as photosensitizers to enhance solar light
absorption, leading to improved photocatalytic performance"

<img width='340' src='https://dwg31ai31okv0.cloudfront.net/image-handler/ts/20240626071001/ri/450/src/images/news/ImageForNews_10348_17194433955516551.jpg'/> 

---

"@ashleygjovik@mastodon.social

TLDR; EPA discovered that Apple was:

- illegally treating hazardous waste

- illegally transporting hazardous waste to disposal facilities 

- illegally dumping hazardous waste into the ambient air outside the
  facility (into the apartment windows)

- leaving stockpiles of extremely dangerous chemicals unattended on weekends"

---

"@ashleygjovik@mastodon.social

In 2020, I nearly died from mysterious industrial chemical exposure at
my apartment. Later, in 2023, I discovered my employer was dumping
toxic waste into the apartment windows from their Skunkworks
semiconductor fab next-door. I tipped off the US EPA, who sent their
env cops to raid Apple's plant in Aug of 2023. The US EPA finally
released the report of their enforcement inspections & sent me a copy
on Friday"

---

"Lhyfe to develop 10MW green hydrogen plant in Sweden"

[[-]](https://www.h2-view.com/cdn-cgi/image/width=690,height=460,fit=cover,quality=75,metadata=none,format=auto,gravity=auto/https://www.h2-view.com/wp-content/files/766B7418-1-scaled.jpg)
 
---

"@thomasfuchs@hachyderm.io

Hi journalists, it's not an 'AI boom'.

It's an 'AI bubble'.

It doesn't even matter if AI works or not (it doesn't). All the
hallmarks of an economic bubble are there:

1. Hugely inflated asset prices far beyond their intrinsic value
(NVIDIA is the world's highest capitalized company right now)

2. Way too much money all chasing just AI companies

3. Highly speculative behavior trying to strike it rich by waiting to
sell to new investors, despite knowledge that value is highly inflated"

---

Will JB pull a Fetterman and still win, or go down like Dukakis after
that picture on the tank? Trump was fine, looked presidential.

---

Biden debate perf did not look good.. Whoever came up with the format,
picked something that does not work for potus. The muted mics,
interruption-free speak time allows him to go off on tangents get lost
in the woods. 

---

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

I donâ€™t think any news outlet has picked up on this yet, but Suno -
which is being sued by every major record label for stealing their
artists songs - is baked directly into Microsoft Copilot"

---

