# Week 47

FuelCellsWorks: "The US Department of Defense is scouting for new
clean power resources on its vast and numerous bases. The aim is to
cut dependence on off-base civilian electrical infrastructure. New,
enhanced geothermal energy systems are beginning to offer that
opportunity, and the US Air Force is already exploring how to deploy
them for producing green hydrogen...

In September, the Air Force put out the call for vendors to come up
with a next-generation geothermal system that can be deployed to
produce green hydrogen for fuel cells, with the entire operation
taking place on federal property..

The Defense Department stepped up its search for alternative fuels
during the Obama administration with a focus on biofuels, only to face
pushback from Republican members of Congress. To this day, the
transition to biofuel still faces a long, slow road. Now the one-two
punch of green hydrogen and geothermal energy is poised to give the
Army, Navy, and Air Force what they wanted all along: a non-fossil,
zero emission, sustainable, resilient, and secure energy resource"

---

Barron's: "Brazil's left-wing President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva
issued a scathing broadside against 'neoliberalism' on Saturday, ahead
of hosting leaders at a G20 summit aimed at economic cooperation.

'Neoliberalism has worsened the economic and political inequality that
is currently plaguing democracies,' Lula said at the close of a
pre-summit event bringing together NGOs, minority groups and climate
activists"

---

"@ayoub@spore.social

37 towns have been destroyed in #Lebanon by #Israel in 4 months.

Do I need to tell you how the world would have reacted if a single
Israeli town was even close to being destroyed?

Every single day we are reminded that our lives do not matter to the
so-called international community"

---

The future can be stag**de**flationary rather than
stagflationary. Rates will be low and growth will be meager. Corporate
Democrats along with Republicans did away with the social assistance
that helped society, supplying the free stuff capitalism needs to
produce its gadgets and trinkets, they killed growth. The root of
growth is [know-how](./0119/2017/08/economic-complexity-hidalgo.html)
(not capital). You can only get know-how by concentrated areas of
skill/capability, that requires some form of social harmony, as in
safety net where people are not fighting tooth and nail to get basic
essentials. 

---

Andersen writes "when Hart ran a second time for president in 1988,
one of his tax policy advisers was Arthur Laffer, the inventor of
supply-side economics.. and Laffer himself says he voted for Bill
Clinton".. A supply-sider... Let that sink in.

---

White collar professional class likes bidness bcz they see running one
as the ultimate professional white collar undertaking. It is about
shifting numbers around, shuffling papers and shit, reading/writing,
handling departments, esp. if the biz is "high-tech" there is a lot of
clickety-click, you can tell someone "walk with me" in the corridor
while you pass documents around, spit out some spaz jargon that means
nothing, and "look cool". 

---

SCMP: "Chinese scientists¬†says they have developed a significantly
more efficient system for separating oil and water in complex
emulsions, which could transform the¬†sustainability¬†of waste water
treatments and other industrial applications."

---

They built suburbia, built cars to reach them, built parking lots to
park those countless cars in, but home ownership fell out of reach for
many they became 'RV homeless' who ended up using those parking lots..

---

Well some of it is used by the poor, a good use, at least.. 

"In California, Safe Parking Lots Offer a Haven for the 'Mobile Homeless'"

---

This is an area larger than the entire country of Switzerland. Larger
then the island Cyprus. Montanegro. Belgium.

"America has 2 billion parking spaces. That's [50,170 square kms] of
parking"

---

"@SecurityWriter@infosec.exchange

When I said that LLMs wouldn‚Äôt scale well, the AIBros said I didn‚Äôt
know what I was talking about and this was the path to
superintelligence.

Now that Microsoft et al are saying it they 'always knew this was the
case'.

Grift."

---

If that wasn't convincing, look at who is on the other side; opposite
of Russia: the Anglo. Opposite of Palestinians: the Anglo. Like late
Chavez said once at the UN: "The devil came here yesterday, and it
smells of sulfur still today". If you catch the smell of sulfur from
the opposite side, you know you are on the right side.

---

This is the stupidest comment I've ever read. Ukraine was and is a
state, Palestinians never had one. The only thing Ukraine had to do
act like a responsible state, measure your strength, check your near
neighbors, form alliances (yes with Russia, and it was possible) to
neutralize them, think ahead for the worst. Ukraine did not act like a
state, it acted like a plutocratic hellhole that is in control of
US/UA oligarchs. We can't compare that with Palestine.

"Israel's war mongering is similar to Russia's, Ukraine is like Palestine"

---

\#Israel \#Lebanon - 11/02 - 11/18

[[-]](mbl/2024/lebdata/map02.html)

---

Doctorow: "While there are many independently maintained servers that
provide services to Bluesky and its users, there is only one Bluesky
server. A federation of multiple servers, each a peer to the other
[like Mastodon], has been on Bluesky's roadmap for as long as I've
been following it, but they haven't (yet) delivered it.

That was worrying when Bluesky was a scrappy, bootstrapped startup
with a few million users. Now it has grown to over 13 million users,
and it has taken on a large tranche of outside capital..

Plenty of people have commented that now that a VC is holding
Bluesky's purse-strings, enshittification will surely follow (doubly
so because the VC is called 'Blockchain Capital,' which, at this
point, might as well be 'Grifty Scam Caveat Emptor Capital')... A VC
that understands that they can force you to wreck your users' lives is
always in danger of doing so"

---

How can a decentralized service have a global outage? 

"Bluesky is a decentralized microblogging social media service"

---

He called himself "liberal libertard" at CATO.. ??? So he is
left-libertard, against private ownership of natural resources? He
probably has no idea... His ideology is being a douche.

---

There he is, the ultra-capitalist outsider.. 

Reuters: "[09/06] Argentina's Milei sees gravity-defying poll numbers
start to fall"

---

Kennard: "Keynes.. proposed an International Clearing Union (ICU) with
its own independent currency called 'the bancor'. The bancor would be
a universal unit of accounting that countries across the globe could
use that would track trade deficits and surpluses. An 'objective' unit
would ensure that equal pressure fell on both the creditor and the
debtor to balance their trade. But such a body would constrain the
powerful creditor nations like the US, which were using their loans
and export capacity as a method of control. For this reason, the ICU
never happened; [Harry Dexter] White [from US] opposed it. Instead, he
wanted an International Stabilization Fund and the IBRD. The purpose
of the Stabilization Fund would be to reduce foreign exchange
controls, maintain steady exchange rates and lend money to nations in
deficit. The bank would provide the capital that was desperately
needed by faltering countries to rebuild after the war. And this was
the formulation that was eventually agreed upon. It completely took
the burden off the creditor nations (like the US) in terms of balance
of trade. Put simply, there was now no restriction on the amount of
surplus a successful exporting nation could enjoy. As a country
borrowed more and more, interest rates just rose and rose. This
formula was perfect for accelerating the racket‚Äôs dominance. Foreign
countries became markets for American goods and started to rely,
heavily, on US capital.

---

Not DJT but maybe someone around him..? Someone at the same level as
Soleimani, a high-ranking official. If Pompeous was picked for the
next cabinet, he'd likely be in the bulls-eye, as he was also
instrumental in the Soleimani assasination itself.

NYT: "Iran Told U.S. That It‚Äôs Not Trying to Kill Trump"

---

Rahm Emanuel üòÇ If Dems pick that son of a bitch they are finished for
another decade, at the minimum.

Politico: "The race for chair ‚Äî the party‚Äôs first real reckoning with
its brutal Election Day outcome up and down the ballot ‚Äî is wide open,
with nearly a dozen names floated as possible successors to replace
Jaime Harrison, who is not expected to run again. Potential contenders
include some Democrats with formidable resumes, including Wisconsin
Democratic Party leader Ben Wikler, Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor
Party Chair Ken Martin, ex-White House infrastructure czar Mitch
Landrieu and U.S. Ambassador to Japan Rahm Emanuel, among others."

---

Politico: "As they begin to dissect their collapse in the presidential
election, some Democratic National Committee members are concluding
that the party is too 'woke,' too focused on identity politics and too
out of touch with broad stretches of America...‚Äù

---

Hernandez: "Ukraine President Zelensky laughs at the idea of Trump
bringing Russia and Ukraine to the table to negotiate peace..

He says Ukraine is independent and should be treated as such..

Alright then pay for your own damn war, we are done flipping your
bill"

---

