# Week 12


ETN: "Huadian Group, a Chinese government-owned undertaking, is
looking to set up a $2.4 billion green hydrogen plant in Vietnam"

---

H2 Central: "Germany launches bidding for carbon contracts to support
climate-friendly industrial production, 4 Billion Eur – Hydrogen
included"

---

Fortune: "Tesla is now a ‘growth company with no growth,’ Wells Fargo
writes in scathing downgrade"

---

CleanTechnica: "US Green Hydrogen Industry Kicks Into High Gear.. the
new law makes room for the renewable energy chickens to come home to
roost. In the latest example, the US Department of Energy has just
announced a new $750 million round of BIL funding, aimed at replacing
fossil-sourced hydrogen with green hydrogen from water"

---

Vibin we chillin.. Vibin n chillin

---

Infosec Exchange: "Governor Kathy Hochul has announced the allocation
of more than $16 million to propel innovations in clean hydrogen
technology, marking a significant step toward achieving New York
State’s zero-emission electricity goals by 2040. This funding,
facilitated through the Hydrogen and Clean Fuel Program, is set to
support research, development, and demonstration projects across the
state, emphasizing the use of clean hydrogen in sectors like
industrial processes, clean transportation, and energy storage"

---

DTV: "Manchin announces $20.5m in funding for two WVU Research
Corporation projects"

---

Reuters: "Morocco to dedicate 1 mln hectares to green hydrogen
projects"

---

ABC: "NSW records two more lithium-ion battery-related fires following
blazes in Bankstown and Silverwater..

- An e-bike burst into flames in an apartment block in Bankstown this morning.

- There was also a lithium-ion battery-related fire in Silverwater.

- FRNSW said there had then been 45 lithium-ion battery-related fires
  recorded in NSW already"

[[-]](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-03-14/new-south-wales-lithium-battery-related-fires/103585608)

---

Transport Engineer: "A hydrogen-powered fuel-cell vehicle (FCEV) that
is being used in a trial is showing no decrease in performance or
range when operating in colder temperatures.. First Hydrogen is
trialling the vehicle in collaboration with gas distribution network,
Wales & West Utilities (WWU)"

---

WSJ: "Electric-Vehicle Startup Fisker Prepares for Possible Bankruptcy
Filing.. Company has struggled with growing its sales amid stagnant
EV demand in the U.S."

---

Chillax still..

---

Fortune: "Volkswagen is still ‘convinced the future will be electric’
as automaker plans to launch 30 new models this year amid gloomy sales
outlook"

---

GN: "South Australia is well placed to lead the energy
transition.. Premier Peter Malinauskas last month announced the state
is bringing forward its renewable energy target by three years with a
goal to source energy from 100 per cent renewables by 2027...

He said South Australia has what the world needs – abundant solar and
wind resources, mineral riches including copper and iron ore, and
steel manufacturing infrastructure and capability. 'That provides a
platform for the opportunities we’ve been talking about today,' he
said during a panel discussion titled The Hydrogen Race"

---
