# Week 13


SciTechDaily: "The [Korea Institute of Energy Research] has achieved a
historic milestone in Korea by successfully producing hydrogen of
exceptional purity from ammonia, completely eliminating carbon dioxide
emissions in the process. Dr. Jung Unho’s research team at the
Hydrogen Research Department of the Korea Institute of Energy Research
(KIER) has developed Korea’s first clean hydrogen production
technology. This innovative approach is based on ammonia decomposition
and does not use fossil fuels. The team’s breakthrough could pave the
way for a more sustainable and eco-friendly energy source. This allows
for the production of high-purity hydrogen that meets international
standards for hydrogen-powered vehicles, without the carbon dioxide
emissions produced by using fossil fuels"

---

Crikey: "Nobel laureate economist savages his own profession as
clueless and unethical.. economist Angus Deaton has delivered a
ferocious rebuke to his own profession, saying economists have failed
to understand that capitalism is about power"

---

*Moonhaven*, fine scifi. *3-Body Problem*, boring, trite, thumbs down.

---

Workers at Ski Resort town are priced out of the housing market. The
rich have their nice houses but the serfs they need to serve them
cannot live in that same town. Sad.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Zsxm3FumyGQ?t=974)

---

Andersen: "A billionaire member of [the Koch] political network.. was
also apoplectic about [a..] mere suggestion that private equity guys
like him should pay taxes on their incomes at an income tax rate of 35
percent, as it was then, instead of the capital gains rate of 15
percent... David Koch died in 2019, but Charles remains overseer of
the interconnected political operations, which are spending $100
million to 200 million a year, mainly on election campaigns. From his
personal foundation’s assets of nearly 1 billion, he spends an
additional 100 million a year promoting the political interests of the
rich and big business.

---

"@EU_Commission@social.network.europa.eu

Today, we have opened five non-compliance investigations under the
Digital Markets Act.

It concerns:

- Alphabet’s rules on steering in Google Play 

- Alphabet’s self-preferencing in Google Search

- Apple’s rules on steering in the App Store 

- Apple's choice screen for Safari

- Meta’s ‘pay or consent model’"

---

Drove people out of their lands to make space for sheep? Brutal.

Ben Goldsmith: "Sheep are the number one cause of the loss of rural
villages, rural communities over the last 500 years in Britain. Since
Tudor times it was rich people buying land clearing villages in the
form of the highland clearances in order to make way for very large
sheep branches. It's well documented, my mother's own ancestor the
Duke of Southernland drove his tenants to the west coast of Scotland
and ultimately, across the Atlantic, in order to clear the land so he
could have vast numbers of sheep. They cut the trees sold the timber
to the Navy, and filled the land with sheep. That's how the numbers of
sheep over 200 years inflated by 80-fold. Then of course the price of
wool collapsed, today sheep represent less than 1% of the total
calories produced in this country"

---

If wealth is not redistributed what is owned by the rest, even
cooperatively shared, is worth less. If you are using anything that is
supplied by a larger system (such as money), you are part of that
system. It is not possible to withdraw into some turtle shell and live
happily ever after there.

---

Also need better taxation

"phil_stevens@mastodon.nz

@abetterjulie The best chance we've got is to build small, human-scale
parallel systems wherever we have the audience and the
agency. Grass-roots mutual aid, food sovereignty, cooperative housing
arrangements"

---

Due to top 1% hoarding assets and/or causing their prices to rise, ppl
increasingly cannot afford to buy, they pay rent to the rich. Govs are
in debt held by the top 1% so even your govs pays interest (rent) to
the rich. Their very presence can turn any economy into an asset
economy. Excess wealth has to be placed somewhere and it goes after
such investments. The econ is so tilted towards this group no matter
where the money is pumped towards, it still ends up with them. Yes in
2008 banks were given money. But 2020 regular people were given
*direct aid* even that ended up with the top 1%. All flows end up
there. It needs to be reversed.

---

Since the 80s US let inequality run rampant (via tax policies, worker
org limitations) which allowed the rich get richer and change the
economy into an asset economy. Same zeitgeist gave rise to monopolies,
in all areas of business, not just tech. 

---

Feudal order goes beyond tech. Rentier economy did not start on
2008. But the ideas are generally in the right direction.

"[C]apitalists.. have turned into (very well-off) vassals, who have to
pay their dues to techno-feudal lords (Amazon; Google; Apple;
Meta)..

As a response to the combined effect of the privatisation of the
internet on the one hand, and the nearly no-strings-attached way with
which states have injected eye-wateringly large sums of money into
banks and large businesses after the 2008 financial crisis on the
other, rent has supplanted profit as the main driver of the global
economy"

[[-]](https://crookedtimber.org/2024/03/25/capitalism-is-dead-long-live-capital/)

---

"@Daojoan@mastodon.social

[T]he creator economy is, to be frank, a dead end, a gilded cage that
places a ceiling on what you can achieve.

I like to talk about the DIY economy. The indie economy. 

In the indie economy, creators build their own platforms, whether
that's a website, an app, or a subscription service. They have
complete control over their content, their audience, and their
monetization strategies. They are not beholden to anyone else's
algorithms or policies, and they have the freedom to experiment and
innovate without fear of reprisal.

Building your own platform is undoubtedly harder than relying on
someone else's. It requires a greater investment of time, money, and
effort. But the rewards are also greater"

---

"@jk@mastodon.social

There's so many remakes and rereleases of everything these days, its
like every media industry is caught in a kind of
'finalreport-finished_-backup-FINAL_FINALFINAL.doc' situation"

---

"@burgerdrome@aus.social

Hollywood and TV casting agents have a self-selecting bias for
acceptable beauty standards which has over time created an 'actor
class' of aesthetics, also notable in the 'iPhone face'
phenomenon. the end result of this is that basically every actor looks
the same to me now and I genuinely struggle to figure out who the fuck
I'm looking at in any production made after 2005. in my opinion all
casting should be measured against a TWINS (1988) scale of casting
similarities"

---

Turchin, *End Times*: "The extent to which economic elites dominate
government in the United States is very unusual compared to other
Western democracies. Countries like Denmark and Austria have ruling
classes that have been fairly responsive to the [needs] of their
population. During the postwar period, these countries were ruled by
strong center-left parties, such as social democrats and
socialists. Center-left parties rotated in power with center-right
parties, but a strong consensus for the welfare state was shared
broadly by the ruling elites in Western European
democracies. Countries such as Denmark and Austria usually occupy the
top positions when UN countries are ranked for their ability to
deliver a high quality of life for their citizens... On many
indicators of quality of life—life expectancy, equality, education—the
US is an outlier in the Western world. Why?

[After 1500s] the conditions of intense warfare [via gunpowder,
perfected in Europe] favor[ed] larger, more cohesive states. Small
principalities and city-states could no longer hide behind their
walls, which were easily breached by cannons. Intense military
competition between European states weeded out those that couldn’t
raise large armies; produce muskets and artillery in quantity; and
build expensive modern fortifications that could withstand cannon
fire. The Military Revolution also triggered a revolution in
governance and finance because successful states had to learn how to
efficiently extract and use wealth from their populations... As a
result, medieval militocracies gradually evolved into ruling classes
that combined military and administrative functions.

Although most plutocracies rapidly went extinct, some lingered longer
than others. The Republic of Venice, located on islands protected by
its lagoon, lasted longer than the other Italian city-states... thanks
to its protected position in the British Isles, once England conquered
all of them, it could, and did, dispense with the standing army (at
least within England itself). The squirearchy, which started as a
military class, gradually lost its military character and became
simply a class of landowners, from which members of the British
Parliament were elected... Unlike the other European great powers,
which had to direct most of their resources into land armies or be
conquered, the British Empire poured its resources into its navy. As a
result, the United Kingdom came to be ruled by an elite that combined
economic and administrative functions.

The antebellum ruling class in the US was a direct offshoot of the
English squirearchy. Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia were settled
by the Cavaliers, the faction of supporters of Charles I that lost the
English Civil War. They brought with them their aristocratic ways and
indentured servants.  The latter were soon replaced by imported
Africans, enslaved for life. After they won the Revolutionary War
against the British Empire, the winners set about building their own
state. Southern planters and Northern merchants largely copied the
cultural forms of governance with which they were familiar. The early
American Republic was an oligarchy modeled after the United Kingdom,
although without a monarch (who, by that point, was on the way to
becoming just a figurehead in the British Empire anyway). As a result,
the United States inherited plutocracy as part of its 'cultural
genotype'"

---

It is not correct to compare US with the Romans. US is not an empire.
The Roman Empire was a militocracy, US is a plutocracy.

---

Reuters: "France's Lhyfe wins 149 mln euro grant for green hydrogen plant"

---

"@ProPublica@newsie.social

In America's rush to build the #nuclear arsenal that won the Cold War,
\#safety was sacrificed for speed.

In 2022, we cataloged cleanup efforts at the sites where #uranium was
processed to fuel this arsenal.

At least 84% of these sites have polluted #groundwater"

---

"@DrTCombs@transportation.social

Four years ago today my kid's school shut down and I coped by making a
list of cities that were closing streets to cars so kids could play in
them.

Shortly thereafter, I took to social media for help documenting what
would soon be a global phenomenon.

It was a hell of a ride..

That initial post led to

1. a global database of street space changes with entries from over 1,500 cities, 

2. multiple new and rekindled collaborations with brilliant people around the world, 

3. some very cool papers (by me and others), and

4. a new job"

---

"@memory@blank.org

If they get Voyager 1 working again, this will go down in history as
the absolute pinnacle of the art of debugging. You think _your_
codebase and kubernetes cluster is hard to deal with? Motherfucker try
doing this with a delay of light-hours"

---

Oman Observer: "Oman sees $40 – 60 bn commitment towards new hydrogen
industry"

---

"@thomasfuchs@hachyderm.io

Society when the hundredth study shows that UBI pretty much instantly
leads to a better life for literally everyone: 🤷

Society when fintech douchebros say prime numbers and bad pictures of
apes are the future of the economy: 'Of course it is. Here's billions
of dollars. Also, do you want a back rub?'"

---

Maybe the complex / globalists sent a message to their opposition via
SCP. They said "watch your step biznatches!"

It would be fitting the medium for the message is a cargo ship.

---

The ship destroying that bridge was managed by Synergy Marine Group.
New York-based private equity firm Searchlight Capital Partners
acquired it on 2022. Searchlight also recently bought a controlling
share in Israel's largest telecom group, Bezeq.

---

CNN: "Baltimore Key bridge collapses after ship collision"

---

"@fuck_cars_bot@botsin.space

'11 hours just to cross the street in "the nation's best place to
live" (according to U.S. News &amp; World Report)'"

[[-]](https://files.botsin.space/media_attachments/files/112/108/882/108/494/211/original/dd3700ace4c02fcd.jpeg)

---

The Canary: "Palestine Action has once again shown the power of direct
action – by shutting down another UK weapons factory. Meanwhile,
activists in the US have stepped up their campaign, also shutting an
arms company facility down. The company in question is of course Elbit
– and its complicity in Israel‘s genocide continues"

---

The largest software project ever undertaken by mankind, the Linux
kernel, was developed under GPL license btw, not commercially.

Luke Smith: "Why I Use the GPL and Not Cuck Licenses.. Every piece of
software I write I license under the GNU Public License Version 3
(GPLv3) unless I have forked it from something else. The GPLv3 is the
premiere copyleft license, meaning that it not only allows users to
run, modify and distribute their own versions of what I write, but it
also requires that no one in that chain of development restrict and
close-source that software"

---

Reshare

"James Weldon Johnson boarded a.. steamship.. on February 27, 1920,
tasked by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People to investigate conditions in Haiti under US military rule..
[he] published his findings in the Nation as the four-part report
*Self-Determining Haiti* [where] Johnson’s assessment of the US
occupation (1915–1934), by then in its fifth year, was searing..

For Johnson a single institution and a single individual were
responsible for the US intervention: the National City Bank of New
York - the precursor to the contemporary financial services leviathan
Citigroup - and its vice president Roger Leslie Farnham... [he wrote]

>[T]o understand why the United States landed and has for five years
>maintained military forces in that country, why some three thousand
>Haitian men, women, and children have been shot down by American
>rifles and machine guns, it is necessary, among other things, to know
>that the National City Bank of New York is very much interested in
>Haiti. It is necessary to know that the National City Bank controls
>the National Bank of Haiti and is the depository for all of the
>Haitian national funds that are being collected by American
>officials, and that Mr. R. L. Farnham, vice-president of the National
>City Bank, is virtually the representative of the State Department in
>matters relating to the island republic"

[[-]](https://projects.iq.harvard.edu/files/glb_cap_crbn_prsm/files/hudson_rhr_national_city_haiti.pdf)

---

It is fitting the most famous anti-American novel *Shibumi* has
its villain personified in a corporation. Mother Company? Who was its
CEO, per an insider joke of that universe, "Ma". CEO was picked as
female I guess the subtle message was even the caring, nurturing
streotype of the female could turn into a money-grubbing conniving
bitch if the scenery is global transnational capitalism.

---

Ha. *Billions* S7 made a reference to the novel *Shibumi*. 

---

*Evil Geniuses*: "[I]n the early 2000s the Kochs and big business kept
expanding what they'd begun in the 1970s and '80s, giving more money
to the think tanks and nonprofits and Washington lobbyists promoting
their other political economic interests. The Kochs started holding
biannual meetings of their new confederacy of right-wing billionaire
political donors, the active core of whom had made their fortunes in
fossil fuels and finance. A new national right-wing financial
organization called DonorsTrust enabled donors to remain anonymous and
keep their fingerprints off their $1.1 billion in contributions (so
far) to hundreds of groups dedicated to 'advancing liberty'..

In 1980, David Koch ran for vice president to Reagan's right on the
Libertarian platform that then seemed crazily extreme 'abolish the EPA
and OSHA, privatize Social Security, repeal campaign finance laws' and
his brother Charles worried about the reaction if the general public
were to learn of their 'radically different' views. But a generation
later in the mid-1990s, what had once been beyond the fringe was the
mass-marketable conservative mainstream. The Kochian economic right
had become a tight-knit shadow national political party affiliated
with and dominating the nominally independent GOP"

---
