# Week 10

"@rayckeith@techhub.social

'Why are things expensive?

4 companies control 55% to 85% of the meat market.

4 airlines control 80% of air travel.

3 companies control 92% of the soda market.

3 companies control 73% of the cereal market.

Why don't I hear about it?

6 companies control 90% of the news'"

---

What a coincidence on average the wealth of top 10% is increasing by
the same amount.

```python
df = u.get_top10(2010)
df['ahead'] = df.top10.shift(-1)
df['inc'] = df.ahead - df.top10
"%0.2f trillion" % df.inc.mean()
```

```text
Out[1]: '1.01 trillion'
```

---

CNBC: "The U.S. national debt is rising by $1 trillion about every 100 days"

---

Fires.. there are some bad ones in TX, NE of Amarilo?

```python
u.modis_fire('fire1.html')
```

[[-]](fire1.html)

---

It's true. Expressive, concise computer languages (or APIs) are better
than ones that require you to type boilerplate code.

"@pikesley@mastodon.me.uk

'BUT THE #LLM HELPS ME CHURN OUT BOILERPLATE' I am once again begging
you to try to imagine working towards a world where we don't need the
boilerplate"

---

Ground News: "Depreciation is hitting EVs harder than most other
vehicles. A combination of technology upgrades, price fluctuations on
new cars, and lack of demand has meant a rapid drop in value for many
electric models. This phenomenon is especially dramatic for Porsche‚Äôs
Taycan EV, with high-spec Turbo models losing almost $100,000 in value
within four years"

---

Status Coup News: "BREAKING: NYPD Police are attacking and arresting
pro-Palestinian Ceasefire Now protesters. VERY ugly scene"

---


Chris Hedges: "Aaron Bushnell, when he placed his cell phone on the
ground to set up a livestream and lit himself on fire in front of the
Israeli Embassy in Washington D.C., resulting in his death, pitted
divine violence against radical evil. As an active duty member of the
U.S. Air Force, he was part of the vast machinery that sustains the
ongoing genocide in Gaza..

'Many of us like to ask ourselves,' he posted shortly before his
suicide, 'What would I do if I was alive during slavery? Or the Jim
Crow South? Or apartheid? What would I do if my country was committing
genocide? The answer is, you‚Äôre doing it. Right now.'..

Bushnell‚Äôs self-immolation ‚Äî one most social media posts and news
organizations have heavily censored ‚Äî is the point. It is meant to be
seen. Bushnell extinguished his life in the same way thousands of
Palestinians, including children, have been extinguished. We could
watch him burn to death. This is what it looks like. This is what
happens to Palestinians because of us"

[[-]](https://chrishedges.substack.com/p/aaron-bushnells-divine-violence)

---

Al Jazeera: "[02/26] US airman dies after setting himself on fire
outside Israeli embassy..  Aaron Bushnell yelled 'Free Palestine!'
then lit himself on fire near the Israeli embassy in Washington, DC"

---

Unanimous.

First Post: "The justices unanimously overturned a Colorado Supreme
Court ruling from December 19 that disqualified Trump from running for
the state's Republican primary on Tuesday, citing the 14th Amendment
to the U.S. Constitution"

---

"@Elizafox@treehouse.systems

People who aren't from Seattle hear how much I pay for rent and I
think they spit out their drinks.

$1995/mo for a 2 bedroom 2 bath 79 m¬≤/850 ft¬≤ apartment in Chinatown
by the way"

---

The only place he could not walk was between South Am and Antartica as
it is open ocean, they used airlift for that small piece. Good enough.

---

Pat Farmer (Oz) walked from North Pole to South Pole. Crazy.

[[-]](https://www.patfarmer.com/pole-to-pole)

---

H2 View: "H2SITE Has Commissioned a Membrane Separator Capable of
Extracting 5 to 20% Hydrogen Blends at +99% Purity From the Gas
Distribution Network

- Located in Zamudio (Bizkaia), the separation unit is installed on a
  natural gas distribution network and operates with hydrogen
  concentrations ranging from 5 to 20%

- It‚Äôs the first installation using palladium-alloy membrane
  separators reaching 97% hydrogen recovery rate at +99% purity"

---

Nature: "Direct solar-driven water splitting by photocatalysis or
photoelectrolysis offers a very promising route to produce green
hydrogen. Among different configurations of photoactive materials, the
bioinspired concept of 'Z-scheme photoactive film' enables
visible-light-driven water splitting by combining two different
photoactive materials in series to separately produce H2 and O2 in
tandem photoelectrochemical (PEC) cells or photocatalytic panels has
demonstrated its great effectivenss. Their scale-up and commercial
applications though require low-cost, stable, efficient, and scalable
photoactive films...

Inspired by the cellular structure of the thylakoid membrane of
chloroplasts in plant cells.. in this study, a facile and scalable
particle-implanting (PiP) fabrication technique of embedding
semiconductor particles in low-melting-point (LMP) liquid metal
matrixes was developed to produce bioinspired photoactive films"

<img width='340' src='https://media.springernature.com/lw685/springer-static/image/art%3A10.1038%2Fs41467-024-46073-6/MediaObjects/41467_2024_46073_Fig1_HTML.png?as=webp'/> 

---

The Ghost in the Machine \#Chomsky \#2023

[[-]](https://youtu.be/axuGfh4UR9Q?t=9332)

---

I axed one of those chat parrots to categorize a text about a criminal
getting a sentence due past hard crimes in an actor-action-actor
format, like GDELT does for news items, basically asking for "A does B
to C" type of output. Chat parrot totally made up one side of the
action, said "families of the victims" brought the guy to court, the
text had none of that. Related news on that exact event elsewhere had
none of that. That answer was likely computed based on the gobs of
texts it ingested earlier on similar stories, which led the parrot to
hallucinate.

---

"@sil@mastodon.social

Apple have backed off; they will no longer be breaking web apps in the
EU next week"

---

"@jasongorman@mastodon.cloud

I'm beginning to think gen A.I. prompting's a bit like TV street
magic: amazing, until you see all the takes where the trick didn't
work.

I abandon sessions twice as often as I get what I need from them"

---

*Bullet to the Head*, *Criminal* (2016). üëç Code 8 Part II, somewhat
average but fine.

---

First Post: "A few months ago, a Mozilla study titled 'Privacy Not
Included,' revealed that almost all major carmakers collect data from
their users and sell it to advertisers"

---

Anatolian News Agency: "[01/21] Protest against British defense company
BAE for selling arms to Israel"

---

BBC: "George Galloway is back in Parliament with a resounding win in
the Rochdale by-election after a campaign in which the Gaza war was a
running theme...  Winston Churchill [was] the only MP to represent
four separate towns and cities in the House of Commons"

---

The ultra Orthodox vote extremist nuts into office who cause mayhem
and war, then they won't fight in the wars created by their vote. I can
see that can anger some people.

Al Monitor: "War spurs anger over Israel military exemption for
ultra-Orthodox"

---

First Post: "Ladakh standoff: India, China in 'constructive
communication' to resolve border issues, says Chinese military"

---

Quora: "'Why is the depreciation curve for BEVs steeper? What's with
this rationale that BEV technology ages faster?'..

My guesses for why BEVs depreciate faster:

- Battery longevity past eight year warranty is still up in the air..

- BEV-exclusive components / parts are more expensive

- Longer wait time for repairs and fewer options

- Reduction in driving range due to inevitable degradation..

- (empty?) promises in upcoming battery chemistry improvements..

- Less demand - significant premium over ICEV, limited form factors,
  creeping insurance premiums

---

Massive gulf between the public and corporate media.. Sad \#LBC

[[-]](https://youtu.be/l3q_VpmpR58?t=751)

---

Al-Monitor: "Gaza famine 'almost inevitable': UN"

---

Labour kneecapped its own candidate over Israel, and lost the seat
to a bigger anti-genocide candidate.. It is poetic justice.

Al-Jazeera: "George Galloway who campaigned against Gaza war wins UK
by-Galloway won the seat in the northern English town of Rochdale
after a fractious campaign, which saw the Labour Party withdraw
support from its candidate over his anti-Israel comments"

---

Arab News: "Maverick left-winger Galloway, an advocate of a free
Palestine, wins in English town"

---

NYT: "‚ÄòThis Is For Gaza‚Äô: George Galloway, Leftist Firebrand, Wins
Rochdale By-Election"

---

TASS: "Putin signs annual decree to call up reservists for training"

---
