# Week 46

Thomas Frank, *NYT*: "The Elites Had It Coming..  At the Republican
convention in July, JD Vance described the ruination visited on his
working-class town in Ohio by NAFTA and trade with China, both of
which he blamed at least in part on Mr. Biden, and also the human toll
taken by the Iraq war, which he also contrived to blame on
Mr. Biden. Today Mr. Vance is the vice president-elect, and what I
hope you will understand, what I want you to mull over and take to
heart and remember for the rest of your life, is that he got there by
mimicking the language that Americans used to associate with labor,
with liberals, with Democrats..

A party of the left that identifies with people like Mr. Cheney is a
contradiction in terms, a walking corpse..

I have begun to doubt that any combination of financial disaster or
electoral chastisement will ever turn on the lightbulb for the
liberals. I fear that 90s-style centrism will march on, by a
sociological force of its own, until the parties have entirely
switched their social positions and the world is given over to
Trumpism. Can anything reverse it? Only a resolute determination by
the Democratic Party to rededicate itself to the majoritarian vision
of old: a Great Society of broad, inclusive prosperity. This means
universal health care and a higher minimum wage. It means robust
financial regulation and antitrust enforcement. It means unions and a
welfare state and higher taxes on billionaires, even the cool ones. It
means, above all, liberalism as a social movement, as a coming
together of ordinary people"

---

ABC Australia *Planet America*: "The Democrats have [big]
problems.. There's been a lot of post-mortems recently one about [why]
they lost, and the groups they didn't do so well in. Actually if you
look carefully at everything, every single problem has one issue in
common, and that is they involve working class people. Talk about
Latinos they're 80% working class people, if you're talking about the
young men most of them don't go to college, we're talking about
working class people. And the Democrats won 44% of the working class
vote in this election..

The reason why that matters is because the Democrats have never.. won
an election in the last 100 years without winning the working class
vote, and this time they won 44%, they're not going to bounce back any
time in a hurry with that.. vote because they've been gradually losing
the working class vote for about 15 years now. And it's getting to a
crisis point..

[The senate] is a bigger problem in my view.. In the Senate, they just
lost Ohio they just lost Montana and they just lost Pennsylvania,
.. the problem [is] because the Democrats don't win the working class
vote anymore, there are 24 States they are non-competitive in. We call
them the Red States, what they really are the working class states,
and the Democrats don't compete in states where the working class
takes over. And they don't lose by a little bit, they lose by 10
points 15 points 20 points, they're not even close, what that means is
that.. Democrats can't afford to lose more than two seats in the rest
of America if they want a bare minimum for for a majority...

In the next two elections the Democrats need to win back Susan Collins
seat which they haven't been able to win for decades, they need to win
back Ron Johnson's seat in Wisconsin. Then McCormick's Pennsylvania
seat.. they need to win back one North Carolina seat and they haven't
won the seat in North Carolina forever. They have to win one North
Carolina seat and they need to lose no other seat, no Georgia - none
of the purple State seats, none of the Michigan seats, none of them,
in order to get 50 seats in the Senate. If they make one mistake,
they're not going to hold the Senate. If they win the presidency in
2028, then they're in a whole world of hurt because it doesn't get
better after that, they keep on having to have a perfect record,
because they're giving up for 48 Senate seats from the beginning. If
they don't make some inroads into the working class vote, they might
never hold the senate for 10 years or or 15 years, they might hold
presidencies without holding the Senate and they won't be able do
anything. They'll be crippled, and that could cripple them as a party
going forward"

---

"Populism" is the word used by right and the left to avoid using the
word "left". Why avoid? The fight to bring leftist ideas to forefront
can proceed in parallel to fix the perception of the word
"left". Let's not avoid, embrace. Use it on the right-wing, "the
populist right" when they use ideas from the left and watch them
cringe. It is they who is on your turf not you on theirs. Make'm pay
for it. They use the word liberally (no pun intended) and as a slur
for this reason, they know they are stealing shit from you, they see
you as the competition and want to keep you down, permanently.

---

BTW war mongering in Ukraine, in Syria, Gaza, basically all over the
world is not 'centrism'".

---

Dems shifted far left on social issues, that was a mistake, they need
to go further left in material, everyday issues.

Politico: "Amid that still-nascent overhaul, a wing of Democrats who
believe the party shifted too far to the left is rising up inside the
DNC..  'I do think there’s this whole sentiment that we just went too
far out there on identity, and it allowed the Republicans to really
attack us at every turn as a result, and that we just essentially did
not focus on just the everyday issues of Americans,' said one DNC
member from California, granted anonymity to speak freely.. [a] member
from Florida put it: 'I don’t want to be the freak show party, like
they have branded us. You know, when you’re a mom with three kids, and
you live in middle America and you’re just not really into politics,
and you see these ads that scare the bejesus out of you'.. [a] member
from Philadelphia [said] 'The center is where we have to be.'"

---

NYT: "Lebanese Fear That Wherever the Displaced Go, Israeli Bombs Will
Follow"

---

H2 View: "Tata Steel plans to import liquid hydrogen produced in
Norway to the Netherlands for use in its steelworks."

---

"@ProPublica@newsie.social

\#Lincare Made Billions While Repeatedly Defrauding #Medicare. Feds
Did Little To Rein It In. Lincare, the nation’s largest distributor of
home oxygen equipment, has repeatedly violated Medicare rules and
probation agreements, victimizing ailing patients and costing
taxpayers huge sums. The federal #government has done little to stop
it"

---

"And put your trust in Allah, for Allah is sufficient as a Trustee of
Affairs -- Surah Al-Ahzab"

---

It's funny one millionaire below says take 3% of our wealth, it will
help people and it won't even effect us. How much is *zakat*,
mandatory Islamic giving every year? 1/40'th of wealth = 2.5%.

[[-]](2024/03/dw-multimillionaires.html)

---

Matt Kennard, *The Racket*: I started working as a reporter at the
*Financial Times* soon after the financial crisis began and at the
height of the so-called 'War on Terror'... There I was exposed to the
other side of this war-industry coin – the world of high
finance. These wars were not the vanity project of deluded leaders;
they were merely the latest stage in a global elite’s prolonged war on
the people of our world with the sole aim of pumping up their bottom
line. I saw the real rulers of the world up close now – they were not
the politicians but the big-money men behind them, the puppeteers who
made everything move...

As Harold Pinter wrote in his Nobel Prize-winning speech in 2005, when
it comes to the US 'it never happened. Nothing ever happened. Even
while it was happening it wasn’t happening. It didn’t matter. It was
of no interest.' He continued: 'The crimes of the United States have
been systematic, constant, vicious, remorseless, but very few people
have actually talked about them. You have to hand it to America. It
has exercised a quite clinical manipulation of power worldwide while
masquerading as a force for universal good. It’s a brilliant, even
witty, highly successful act of hypnosis.'  The media would have you
believe that there is no racket, that it’s purely an accident that we
live in a world where 85 people, 85 people, own half the world’s
wealth while more children die of starvation every year than died in
the Holocaust.

---

"@villebooks@mastodon.social

Matt Kennard argues that contrary to public utterances, the British
government, like the Americans are deeply involved in Israel’s
merciless bombing of Gaza.

They are providing military support, intelligence, diplomatic cover
whilst at the same time claiming they want a quick resolution to the
slaughter.

Matt is an independent journalist and author of three books *Irregular
Army*, *Silent Coup* and *The Racket*"

---

Noticed a fem Gen Z hand gesture, looks like pulling something out of
air, ends up an inverted Italian pinched fingers.. looks funny, you
could call it sassy.

---

"@veroandi@mastodon.social

Sam Altman side by side with Aaron Swartz [in a photo].

I can't stop thinking about it. One was prosecuted by the US for
downloading copyrighted data from 1 source for noble purposes, and
committed suicide to avoid prison. The other is widely celebrated for
doing this on a much larger scale*.

Edited: *(and not for noble purposes)"

---

NOTUS: "[Lena Khan's] worldview and agenda at the FTC made for some
strange bedfellows in Washington. 'I hope her work continues in the
Trump administration' Rep. Matt Gaetz told NOTUS..'Her work against
data brokers has been very important. Her work against some of the
consolidated market power that hurts consumers has really inspired
me'" via \#Greenwald \#SystemUpdate

---

Good.. that's where he deserves to be

Daily Mail: "Barack Obama and his wife Michelle have been slammed by
his biographer for 'talking down' to voters in 'tone-deaf and
clueless' preaching.. The effect was so bad that – combined with
Donald Trump's victory – it is likely to reduce the 44th president's
political relevance to 'Bill Clinton levels', David Garrow said in an
exclusive interview"

---

"@dbattistella@mstdn.ca

In a world where \#consumers are \#voters, this matters!

The \#BDS Movement has officially partnered with \#Boycatapp, an
innovative ethical shopping platform and application, in order to help
people join consumer-focused #BDS campaigns more effectively"

---

More RU activity in Kursk. I see UA made a push NW Novoivavonka but it
will be token, their forces are nearly encircled from behind.  Win
one, lose two.

---

\#UA \#RU \#Frontline 11/08 - 11/15

[[-]](ukrdata/map43.html)

---

"@aral@mastodon.ar.al

'If you’re not careful, the newspapers will have you hating the people
who are being oppressed, and loving the people who are doing the
oppressing.'

– Malcolm X"

---

Richard Medhurst: "I'm English. I was arrested on English soil, by
English police under an archaic English law & treated as a terrorist
for my reporting.

To this day, not a single British outlet in the mainstream press have
said a word...

@haimBresh @silkinsonbc @AsaWinstanley and @CraigMurrayOrg experienced
similar mistreatment. Again, no mention in the press"

---

Frank, *Listen Liberal*: "[Democratic] party intensified its courtship
of the comely professional-managerial class. In 1974, in reaction to
the Watergate scandal, a huge group of Democrats was elected to
Congress—new-school Democrats, that is, who seemed to be largely
uninterested in traditional Democratic issues of economic
equality. 'The new Democrats came out of the anti-war protests and the
McGovern campaign, the Peace Corps and the women’s movement, the
professions and the suburbs,' writes [an] historian.. 'but not the
union halls and the wards.' Their de facto leader was the newly
elected senator Gary Hart, McGovern’s former campaign manager, a man
who made his name denouncing old-fashioned, working-class politics in
favor of a more tech-friendly vision.

Hart became a symbol of the Sixties generation’s revolt against the
workerist politics of their parents. 'The End of the New Deal' was the
title of Hart’s standard 1974 campaign speech; he liked to mock
old-school libs as 'Eleanor Roosevelt Democrats.'.. It was also the
occasion for the media’s discovery of the affluent and tasteful
'yuppie' — the 'Young Urban Professional' whose rise was supposed to
signal yet another break from the Democrats’ traditional blue-collar
demographic. The Jimmy Carter presidency was an earlier milestone. At
first Carter had seemed like a man who could recover the party’s
historic constituencies. But once in office, he broke with the New
Deal tradition in all sorts of highly visible ways, cancelling public
works projects and conspicuously snubbing organized labor"

---

Hart followers abolished Glass-Steagal causing the 2008 crisis, with
their "market friendly" focus proposed Clintoncare, that turned into
Obamacare leaving 85 million people uninsured or underinsured. And
they are somehow shocked the working class abandoned them.

---

Andersen: "In the 1984 Democratic primary, Gary Hart was still the
neoliberal apostate, running against the supposed mustiness of the New
Deal and the Great Society and government.. When Hart ran a second
time for president in 1988, one of his tax policy advisers was Arthur
Laffer, the inventor of supply-side economics. When Jerry Brown ran
for the 1992 Democratic nomination, he also sought Laffer’s help to
devise some kind of tax scheme 'that was clear and easy to
articulate,' and Laffer himself says he voted for Bill Clinton.

Clinton was one of the founders in 1985 of the Democratic Leadership
Council. It was an attempt by an endangered species, white Southern
Democratic politicians, to remain relevant twenty years after their
die-off had begun. It also became a think-tankish anchor for Democrats
who didn’t disagree with Republicans that the only acceptable new
solutions to any social problem were market-based"

---

TWT: "A team of researchers with ETH Zurich is developing jet engines
that burn hydrogen rather than kerosene"

---

"@mosseri@threads.net

Interesting Threads fact: we’re removing the Instagram graph import
from the onboarding flow. We’ve been running a test for a while now
and it looks like people actually prefer their experience if they
build a different graph on Thread than the graph that they had on
Instagram. Feels a bit like a growing up moment"

---

Autonews: "China's Hubei Province aims to put over 7,000 fuel cell
vehicles on roads by 2027"

---

McCain must've appealed to W's distaste for donors, and got a version
of campaign finance reform passed. But then the moneyed class changed
strategy, went through the backdoor, and finally via Citizens United
and a pro-business Scotus undid the achiements of McCain. JMC died
from cancer, the result of supressed anger according to a catalog of
mind-body connection, psychology/ailment . By the end he'd lost
everything, his prime achievement, a shot at the presidency, and after
being dragged through the mud -mostly deserved- by an irreverant
Trump, his social standing.

---

W did not like asking money from donors.. Interesting. He is
right. Governance, the ones who govern should not sink to the level of
plutocrats where they are constantly asking for money. It's disgusting.

---

Newsweek: "[2000] Though he had a joke and a smile for everyone who
came by, [George W] Bush mocked the shakedown grip-and-grins with
contributors. He bemoaned the way fat cats continually made
suggestions about campaign strategy and always brought up his
family. 'I hate doing them,' he said about the fund-raisers. 'They
really take a lot out of me.'"

[[-]](https://www.newsweek.com/pumping-iron-digging-gold-pressing-flesh-157039)

---

Business Insider: "Donald Trump has chosen Pete Hegseth as his defense
secretary at a key point in the war in Ukraine... The military veteran
and Fox News commentator has mostly aligned with Trump on Ukraine"

---

Gaetz gets a cabinet position, great. The media is freaking out about
it, also great.

---

The one common theme among the picks though is they are mostly China
hawks, the CIA pick included. Ukraine-wise it is tilting towards
realists.

---

Palestinians are always screwed.. Pro-Palestinian people among
potential Rep nominees would be few and far between... Even the most
crowd favourite anti-war types turn out to be Zionist freaks once you
scratch the surface.

---

Niall Ferguson does a great Kissinger impression.

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/ocYvwiSYDTA?start=346&end=379)

---

"Is prosperity without economic growth possible?" \#DW

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/JUPrlfBoSzI?start=209&end=329)

---

"It is a common misconception that ancient Rome did not have
windows. However, this is not the case. While the ancient Romans did
not use glass in their windows, they did use oiled paper or animal
skin to create a barrier against the elements...

What existed before windows.. MS-DOS was a disk operating system that
was developed by Microsoft. It was the predecessor to the Windows
operating system and was used on IBM PC compatible computers"

[[-]](https://www.learnancientrome.com/did-ancient-rome-have-windows/)

---

It's true. I checked 😂 

"@Chloeg@mastodon.art

Ok so im reading this article on Roman Glazing and slowly I begin to
realise that it was written by an AI. Witness the section on 'What
existed before windows' where it suddenly starts talking about MS-DOS"

---

Zawya: "Jordan new electricity law incentivises green hydrogen,
storage projects"

---

"The giant, portable Australian refueller ready to fill our hydrogen
cars, trucks and buses.. Queensland hydrogen solutions company H2H
Energy has launched its H2CORE hydrogen refuelling product, capable of
high-capacity refuelling for hydrogen-powered cars, trucks, buses and
boats"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/119/532/598/original/88fb578295700a2c.jpg'/>

---

Owen Jones: "[A]fter the Democratic party personally gift wrapped the
US elections and handed to a guy their own presidential candidate
described as a fascist, the recriminations, it's fair to say, have
begun in earnest.

Now we should be very clear here - this defeat belongs squarely to the
Democratic Party establishment, the wing of corporate lobbyists and
dead-behind-the-eyes machine hacks, and consulting firms and all the
rest, because what they will now do is blame anyone but themselves and
they'll particularly blame 'the left', even though the left had
absolutely nothing to do with this disastrous campaign, had no
ownership over the campaign, had no involvement in the campaign. Now
Bernie Sanders the independent Senator for Vermont and the de-facto
figurehead of the US left, launched a scathing attack on the
Democratic leadership after Donald Trump won not just the presidency,
but the popular vote, the first time that Republicans have won the
popular vote in the presidential election since 2004"

---

S12S calls himself "Greek". I know Greeks from Greece, they are not
like you George. They'd laugh at you behind your back and call you
*Amerikanós malákas*. Ethnic heritage in a foreign land means nothing
beyond zeroth generation. Culture is transmitted subconciously, via
osmosis at young age. You ain't Greek.

---

Clint reading GH book..  S12S during the campaign being worried to end
up like GH because that is their North Star. This is how Dems turned
into a ultra-capitalist, anti-poor, globalist party.

---

Some Gary Hart excerpts from George Stephanapopolopolopololopolpopopoous book,
*All Too Human*,

"The whole experience was dirty, draining, and depressing... We looked
more like Gary Hart's campaign every day."

"When I entered the suite, [Clinton had] a new hardcover by Gary Hart
— spilled on the bedspread around him"

"Was there any danger that [Clinton] would pull a Gary Hart and
sabotage his own campaign?"

---

24.5 million naturalized citizens in US, 46.2 million foreign born. 

---

"@andrewdessler@mastodon.world

let me emphasize: we really really really understand radiative
transfer and what happens when you dump a gas that absorbs infrared
radiation into the atmosphere"

---

Gasworld: "Air Products in talks for more NEOM offtake.. Negotiations
are underway for additional offtake at the NEOM green hydrogen
megaproject in Saudi Arabia which would exceed the production of the
facility, according to CEO Seifi Ghasemi. Speaking on an earnings call
following the release of Q4 and full year results (click here),
Ghasemi said construction is about 60% complete, and it is on track to
launch the facility at the end of 2026. Target production is 600
tonnes of hydrogen daily and analysts heard how the company plans to
‘fully load’ from 2027"

---

Phsy.org: "Iron electrocatalysis breaks down polystyrene and delivers
green hydrogen.. The vast amounts of plastic garbage heaped in
landfills and in the environment are as problematic as the plastics
are useful. In an article.. a German research team has now introduced
a new method for recycling polystyrene waste. Their efficient
electrochemical process uses an inexpensive iron catalyst, produces
hydrogen as a byproduct, and can be powered by solar panels"

<img width='340' src='https://scx1.b-cdn.net/csz/news/800a/2024/iron-electrocatalysis.jpg'/>

[[-]](https://phys.org/news/2024-11-iron-electrocatalysis-polystyrene-green-hydrogen.html)

---

Crooked tech. People pushing this shit straight up lost their minds.

ABC: "Firefighters say they respond to an e-scooter or e-bike-related
fire on average two times a week"

---

ABC: "Three people hospitalised after suspected e-scooter fire engulfs
garage in Sydney's south.. Firefighters say an e-scooter battery, left
on charge overnight, is the likely cause of an early morning fire that
has badly damaged a Sydney home and left multiple people in
hospital."

---
    
Let It All Go (feat. Preservation Hall Jazz Band) \#music

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrskq9tzxtQ)

---

Malik, *The Guardian*: "Cosplaying social justice is the new elitist
way of elbowing out the working class. A new book by Musa al-Gharbi
accuses liberal professionals of talking about justice but entrenching
inequalities.. Al-Gharbi.. was a freshman at Columbia
University. Those profiting from the 'racial caste system' were fellow
students, many of them vocal about social justice, but largely
indifferent to the needs of those at the bottom of the social
hierarchy on whose labour their lives rested.

Four years later, many of these same students joined Black Lives
Matter protests. Al-Gharbi watched as they demonstrated on Broadway in
New York’s Upper West Side, oblivious to the [black homeless].. The
protesters 'were crowding the benches that homeless people were
using', insisting that 'Black Lives Matter', but apparently not 'the
Black guys right in front of them'.

This constant disparity between the professed beliefs of liberal
students agitating for social justice and actions that revealed an
indifference to the material injustice surrounding them led Al-Gharbi
to write a book to try to make sense of it... If you want to
understand what just happened in the US election, it is one of the
more useful starting points"

---

\#Dems \#iamblakely

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/ElvSYVswnIo?start=325&end=551)

---

"RTX's Pratt & Whitney to demonstrate hydrogen-fueled turboprop
technology under Canadian INSAT program.. First phase of HyADES
project will include tests on PW127XT engine fuel nozzle and combustor
rig"

---

That's great.. Pomp especially is too tied to the private complex.
Haley, too pro war.. 

NYT: "Trump Won’t Have Haley or Pompeo in New Administration"

---

"We Went To Montana: The Housing Inequality Will Shock You" 

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/dU2x0BmFhJI?start=180&end=495)

---

It's like insider trading but for government. Let's call it
"legislative arbitrage".

Yahoo Finance: "Nancy Pelosi has made 20 times her salary in just one
trade"

---

*Levels* - fine scifi .. recognized some from other tv scifi /
fantasy..  D. Hewlett, Tapping, an actor from *The Expanse*... The
simulation concept is being underused in movies imo bcz *The Matrix*
monopolized the notion. Let's overuse it.. There is much to be done
here.

---

\#SenChrisMuprhy \#Cataclysm \#NeoLiberalism

[[-]](https://youtu.be/pK9TZkC5FtM)

---

Politico: "More Democrats fear the party’s image isn’t just damaged –
it’s broken.. Everyone agrees they lost the working class.. In
interviews with 16 elected officials, party leaders and strategists,
Democrats from both wings of the party agreed they have stopped
knowing how to talk to the working class, once the very core of their
identity"

---
    
NYT: "50,000 Russian and North Korean Troops Mass Ahead of Attack,
U.S.  Says.. Ukrainian officials expect a counteroffensive in western
Russia to begin in the coming days as North Korea’s troops train with
Russian forces"

---

Both Gore and Clinton were lying through their teeth of course, they
pushed NAFTA that destroyed local jobs and they would do it again if
they had the chance just like Black Bill Clinton pushed TPP later. But
it is instructive to see what worked in campaigning, and what would've
worked in governance.

---

Ruffini, *Party of the People*: "Trailing in the polls, Al Gore
revamped a 2000 campaign initially focused on high-tech prosperity
with a return to the unreconstructed politics of the workingman and
woman. 'We are for the people!' Gore bellowed, sounding like an
itinerant preacher. 'They are for the powerful!' A technocrat at
heart, Gore would prove to be an imperfect populist messenger. But the
pivot seemed to work: he went from trailing by double digits to within
537 votes of winning the presidency...

Macomb County, Michigan, to the north of Detroit, has for decades been
a reference point for those seeking to win the white working class,
the home of the Reagan Democrat. It was here where Stanley Greenberg,
Bill Clinton’s 1992 pollster, held a famed series of focus groups to
understand how Democrats could win back the working-class majority
they had lost to Ronald Reagan. In the 1980s, a group of concerned
moderates in the party coalesced into the Democratic Leadership
Council, Arkansas governor Bill Clinton among them. The DLC warned
that the party had lost sight of the broad mass of working- and
middle- class Americans, fixating instead on a disparate menagerie of
identity groups— women, minorities, labor, and green voters. The
campaign that emerged from Macomb positioned Bill Clinton as the 'Man
from Hope,' a candidate focused only on one group: the middle class
that a large majority of Americans identified with...

By 2010, a yawning socioeconomic gap had opened among whites, with
much higher rates for lower-class whites.  Murray’s shorthand for this
divide, upper-class Belmont versus working-class Fishtown, was a
precursor to the Whole Foods–Cracker Barrel divide that would serve as
a metaphor for Trump-era politics"

---

Alfred Jazeera is focusing on "toxicity" after Dems suffered a huge
loss.. What are you trying to do, Al? Are you afraid if Dem's loss is
seen as having do with the country's moneyed interest treating the
world as a franchise always seeks to make money from chaos,
militarism, US might pull out its bases from Qatar one day (the
financier of Al Jazeera)?

---

But Cuck knows it's a stupid strategy.. The point is blowing smoke up
your ass, herd enough people towards an unachievable goal so other
avenues are not discussed. They would do anything not to abandon their
Gary Hart / Clintonesque yuppie/shitlib, Republican-lite roots. White
collar professionalism is their religion.

---

That is one stupid strategy..

Cuck Schumer: "[2016] For every blue-collar Democrat we lose in
western Pennsylvania, we will pick up two moderate Republicans in the
suburbs in Philadelphia, and you can repeat that in Ohio and Illinois
and Wisconsin"

---

\#Axelrod \#CNN

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LSrUKBj94Ho)

---

Tom McGrath's [article](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2024/06/04/yuppies-donald-trump-book-excerpt-00160689)
makes clear, today's shitlib Democrats are deeply tied to Gary Hart's
legacy (Clinton was a huge follower). This group during the 84 Dem
primary were nonchalant about working class issues, and they actually
preferred Reagan over their own. "College-educated young professionals
had done better than most over the last four years, and seven in 10 of
them believed Reagan was more likely than Mondale to keep making them
better off financially". Prefering Republican over a leftist
Democrat.. Sound familiar? That's why, Clinton, as the torch bearer of
this movement needs to be destroyed in terms of legacy.  Anyone around
him, connected to him needs to be cleansed, expunged wholesale from
the party. Heads need to roll. Chop Chop.

---

H2 Central: "Speech by President von der Leyen at the Fourth Edition
of the Renewable Hydrogen Summit, via video message:

'One year ago, many of you gathered here in Brussels for the very first
Clean Transition Dialogue. We brought together the entire renewable
hydrogen value chain — from electrolyser manufacturers to off-taker
industries — to address one fundamental question: How do we scale
Europe’s hydrogen market faster?

Today, I am proud to share how far we’ve come. In just 12 months,
Europe has seen final investment decisions on over 2 gigawatts of
renewable hydrogen projects. That’s four times our current installed
capacity..

These decisions are more than milestones, they signal a new
chapter. Projects that secure all necessary funding and permits are
ready to break ground. Let me give you one example:

Stegra’s Boden steel plant in Sweden, supported by the European
Innovation Fund, will soon be the largest renewable hydrogen project
in the world. And it’s not alone. From Denmark to Romania, from
Germany to Portugal, 10 other large-scale projects have also moved
from concept to construction.

To put that into perspective, the United States saw just two such
decisions during the same period. This illustrates European leadership
in renewable hydrogen. In fact, investment in European hydrogen is set
to grow by 140% in 2024, with Europe contributing nearly a third of
global investments in electrolysers'"

---

The Lever: "The Allentown clinic was run by a nonprofit group called
Remote Area Medical, or RAM, which has been running free clinics
domestically and internationally since 1985... [The coordinator]
didn’t talk politics, but as he shared his own experience in the
medical field, he struck at a central issue at the heart of the
American health care system: It’s based around private health
insurance, and maximizing corporate profits. This is why the United
States spends more on health care than other wealthy countries, and
Americans experience worse health outcomes... RAM was originally
founded in 1985 with 'the intention to serve in remote areas of
developing countries,' according to a spokesperson. But since 2019,
with 'the need for free health care in the U.S.' being 'so vast,' it
has only operated in this country"

---

Brooks, NYT: "Society worked as a vast segregation system, elevating
the academically gifted above everybody else. Before long, the diploma
divide became the most important chasm in American life. High school
graduates die nine years sooner than college-educated people. They die
of opioid overdoses at six times the rate...

The Democratic Party has one job: to combat inequality. Here was a
great chasm of inequality right before their noses and somehow many
Democrats didn’t see it. Many on the left focused on racial
inequality, gender inequality and L.G.B.T.Q. inequality. I guess it’s
hard to focus on class inequality when you went to a college with a
multibillion-dollar endowment and do environmental greenwashing and
diversity seminars for a major corporation. Donald Trump is [.. bad],
but there’s something off about an educated class that looks in the
mirror of society and sees only itself...

As the left veered toward identitarian performance art, Donald
Trump['s] Queens-born resentment of the Manhattan elites dovetailed
magically with the class animosity being felt by rural people across
the country. His message was simple: These people have betrayed you,
and they are morons to boot"

---

"Guardrail"

Politico: "The law is ‘not airtight’: Trump may have a way out of
NATO.. The guardrail against the next president leaving the alliance
is shakier than you think"

---

"@andreasuihlein@mastodon.social

\#Hydrogen accounted for < 2% of EU’s energy consumption in 2022,
mainly used to produce chemical products.By 2050, #RenewableHydrogen
is to cover 10% of the EU’s energy needs"

---

