# Week 28


"How big corporations took over Western governments"

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/tczNLhfdQ7A?start=1898&end=2087)

---

He was. I suspect he might've even been led there, at least, his
passport cancellation done at a key moment to have him be stuck at
that location. It sure beats Belmarsh. His was the lesser "crime"
after all, telling on the government, embarrassing them. Assange's was
worse, he outed the entire military-industrial private media complex,
and unearthed their dealings.

"Was Snowden better off to end up in Russia?"

---

Modern science is falsifiable. Carroll wants a new science that
doesn't require falsifiability so his theories become automatically
valid. But then any god-damn theory is valid... Anyone can pull
theories out of their ass and claim they are correct. Science cannot
be conducted this way.

---

Voit, *Not Even Wrong*: "[2018] Sean Carroll has a new paper out
defending the Multiverse and attacking the naive Popperazi [followers
of Popper], entitled *Beyond Falsifiability: Normal Science in a
Multiverse*... Much of the problem with the paper and blog post is
that Carroll is.. ignoring the serious arguments about the problems
with multiverse research"

---

Sean Carroll is a total crank, no doubt about it.. His dubious
theories cannot be proven, but he doubles down, writes a paper with
words "Beyond Falsifiability" in it, saying the definition of science
is wrong. Think about what he is saying here: his bizarro theories
cannot prove anything, so he says the definition of science has to
change to **suit him**. That is the absolute low, bottom of the barrel
for science and specifically American science. A certain culture
created this guy with a giant L. The uber-dreamy exploration in all
things, wout checking, wout verification, senseless imaginification
brought you here.. That's why I argue the stewardship of bleeding-edge
science needs to leave US and go back to where it started, Eurasia.

---

Some are protesting the scotus "immunity from official acts" decision
but that was already de facto state of affairs now it became "de
jure". US presidents have huge leeway in many things - that's why most
of them also happen to be war criminals.

---

H2 Insight: "Hydrogen fuel consumption rises almost 50% in South Korea
amid H2 bus boom"

---

The neighbors might be seeing a winner in SAF, maybe they now want to
cosy up to them, support their side. Ongoing war is problematic for
every neighbor it creates a refugee crisis.

---

Reuters: "Ethiopia's Abiy visits Sudan's [SAF] army chief on Red Sea
coast.. Abiy Ahmed met Sudan's army chief General Abdel Fattah
al-Burhan on Tuesday, becoming the first foreign leader to visit him
in his war capital Port Sudan since the start of the conflict between
the army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF)"

---

"[04/15] Iran’s 'Limited Response' [to Israel's attack on the Iranian
embassy in Damascus] Pleases Hardliners and Used Channels with the
US.. U.S. and neighboring countries were kept in the loop and that the
predominant use of slow-moving, unmanned Shahed-238 drones indicated
that Tehran had calculated and possibly even coordinated its operation
with the U.S... If there is a silver lining in the attacks, it was
that close contacts between Iran and the U.S. were maintained to try
to avoid a further escalation"

---

H2 Insight: "Game-changing electrolyser coating that could halve
hydrogen stack capex cost to be tested at scale.. A technology company
that has developed a metallic alloy coating that could double hydrogen
production from alkaline electrolysers and halve the stack capex cost
for H2 projects has.. commissioned a demonstration plant to scale-up
testing to commercially-sized systems.  Oxford NanoSystems’ (ONS)
so-called 'nanoFlux' alloy coating encourages the formation of more,
smaller bubbles on the electrodes within an electrolyser, which in
turn allow more electrons to move throughout the system — enabling the
use of higher electrical currents and more hydrogen production in any
given time period"

---

Techcrunch: "Newsletter platform and Substack rival Ghost announced
earlier this year that it would join the fediverse, the open social
network of interconnected servers that includes apps like Mastodon,
Pixelfed, PeerTube, Flipboard and, more recently, Instagram Threads,
among others. Now, it has made good on that promise — with its own
newsletter as a start"

---

H2 Insight: "Electrolyser technology that promises to reduce cost of
hydrogen by up to 20% receives government grant.. Catalyst and
electrode supplier Matteco is working to build a new generation of
alkaline electrolysers with fellow Spanish OEM Ariema Enerxía"

---

SCMP: "Hong Kong receives first hydrogen-powered light rail train in
green energy push"

---

Plot against FDR! Is this the Deep State?

It sounds more like a Merchantile State.

Jesse Ventura: "[intro from the book *War Is A Racket*] President
Roosevelt’s New Deal was considered anti-American and evil by the Wall
Street crowd.. The president was taking on the stock speculators and
setting up new watchdog federal agencies. He was putting a halt on
farm foreclosures and forcing employers to accept union collective
bargaining... he even spoke of raising taxes on the rich to help pay
for New Deal programs.

So a lot of titans of finance hated the man’s guts. [War hero Smedley]
Butler even suspected some of them might have been behind a failed
assassination attempt against him shortly before he was elected
president. Then one day in 1934, to Butler’s surprise, a bond salesman
named Gerry MacGuire approached him... some captains of industry [had
come] together and announced they were forming a new American Liberty
League that September. Its stated goals were 'to combat radicalism, to
teach the necessity of respect for the rights of persons and property,
and generally to foster free private enterprise.' The League’s backers
included Rockefellers, Mellons, and Pews.. [and they wanted to arrange
a government takeover]...

[W]ho was their choice to lead a government takeover?.. Smedley
Butler. They knew how popular he was with veterans, and the idea was
to have Smedley come out of retirement and lead another veterans’
'Bonus Army' march on the nation’s capital. They wanted to create
havoc with as many as five hundred thousand men at Butler’s
heels. Pressured by these events, so the twisted thinking went, FDR
would be convinced to name Butler to a new cabinet post as a secretary
of 'general affairs' or 'general welfare.' Eventually, the president
would agree to 19turn over the reins of power to Butler altogether,
under the excuse that his polio was worsening, and FDR would become a
mere ceremonial figurehead..

[Butler] decided to bring a reporter friend in on the conspiracy, so
it wouldn’t be just his word against the plotters’, and they worked
together to gather more background [later outed the plotters,
testified] before the House McCormack-Dickstein Committee.. But then
the committee’s investigation came to a sudden stop and none of the
alleged financiers were ever called for questioning. In fact, when the
transcript of the committee’s interview with Butler came out, every
person he’d named ended up being deleted"

---

@fuck_cars_bot@botsin.space

"What car addicts believe:"

[[-]](https://files.botsin.space/media_attachments/files/112/745/184/241/001/899/small/8cafe59849ffa404.jpeg)

---

Can the war be useful for Zelensky to get out from under the thumb of
oligarchs? He can use his war-time leader image, plus war destroys
oligarch wealth decreasing their influence. Maybe. There were
indications VZ wanted peace back in 2022 but was talked out of it by
the international weapons cartel (via their tools in US/UK). It's
possible but will there be a Ukraine standing by that point?

---

Ironically US played a role corrupting Ukraine for the benefit of its
private stakeholders. Ukranian oligarchs ran Ukraine, who were in turn
controlled by US 'proconsuls' like Victoria Nuland. The entire corrupt
system survived because of and for United States. Zelensky became
president thanks to an oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky. Then the bear came
down knocking, everyone lost their shit.

---

The Telegraph: "Ukraine to be told it is too corrupt to join Nato"

---

H2 Central: "SK E&S Unveils South Korea’s First Liquid Hydrogen
Refueling Station in Gyeonggi Province.. Strategically located within
the parking lot of SK Hynix’s Icheon campus, the station will
primarily serve the company’s employee shuttle buses, marking a
significant step in implementing the “ESG Leading Companies Hydrogen
Commuter Bus Conversion Agreement” signed in May of last year.

The agreement, involving the Ministry of Environment, major
corporations, local governments, and transportation companies, aims to
convert over 2,000 existing internal combustion engine commuter buses
to hydrogen buses by 2026.

The Icheon station will receive its liquid hydrogen supply from SK
E&S’s Incheon Liquid Hydrogen Plant, which opened in May. This plant,
the world’s largest single-factory liquid hydrogen production
facility, can produce 30,000 tons of liquid hydrogen annually"

---

China Hydrogen Bulletin: "It is widely acknowledged that Chinese
electrolyzer manufacturers sell products at world lowest price. In
December 2023, eleven Chinese ALK electrolyzer manufacturers have been
selected as winners in what is believed to be China’s largest ever
public electrolyzer tender.. for a 1000Nm3/hr (5MW) ALK electrolyzer
is Rmb7.898 million, or 219 dollar per KW ($1=Rmb7.2). The bidding
price included ALK electrolyzer and BOP. This price is breath-taking
as it only represents about one-third of which provided by western
peers"

---

Politico: "Farage’s party’s string of second-place finishes,
particularly across traditionally Labour seats which fell to Boris
Johnson’s Conservatives in 2019, will give the incoming government the
heebie-jeebies. If Starmer fails to bring about the change and improve
voters’ lives as he promises, who will Reform voters punish?

Farage was explicit about who he’ll be gunning for in the next
election, which must be held by 2029. 'We’re coming for Labour — be in
no doubt about that,' he said in his victory speech in Clacton leisure
center. 'This is the first steps in something which is going to stun
all of you'"

---

\#NATO \#Swanson

[[-]](https://youtu.be/CuCMRjHrLnk?t=457)

---

The left bloc still has some shitlib centrist positions.. If they form
coalition with centrists in power, they can sink with them, NR will
come back even stronger.

---

France has two-round sys for parliament, non-NR blocs tactically
pulled out candidates to allow the strongest candidate from any non-NR
bloc to get the votes for the second round. National Rally was \#1 in
the first round, now it is at \#3.

---

Macron's gamble worked.. his alliance ended up above NR.

The Guardian: "Surprise win for leftwing alliance predicted in French
election.. Marine Le Pen’s National Rally falls into third place
despite strong showing in first round of voting"

---

Against whom I wonder.. 

Arab News: "Japan, Philippines defense pact negotiations nearing conclusion,
ambassador says"

---

SA and Iran close relationship will squeeze out Israel.. Until now
Israel has been using Iran, Syria, Lebanon to villify part of the West
Asia so they can justify theirs and the US' war machine presence
there. If IRN and SAU plus others coalesce, they will lose that
enemy. Therefore anyone supporting the raproachment indirectly
supports a defanged Israel.

---

Firstpost: "Saudi Arabia's king and crown Prince keen on strengthening
ties after Iran gets new president"

---

Monbiot: "What is the 'normal' envisaged by pundits and politicians of
the left and centre? It is the most anomalous politics in the history
of the world. Consciously or otherwise, they hark back to a remarkable
period, roughly 1945 to 1975, in which, in certain rich nations,
wealth and power were distributed, almost everyone could aspire to
decent housing, wages and conditions, public services were ambitious
and well-funded and a robust economic safety net prevented
destitution. There had never been a period like it in the prior
history of the world, and there has not been one since...

In the absence of one of the four great catastrophes, income and
capital inexorably accumulate in the hands of the few, and oligarchy
returns. Oligarchs are people who translate their inordinate economic
power into inordinate political power. They build a politics that
suits them. Scheidel shows that as inequality rises, so does
polarisation and political dysfunction, both of which favour the very
rich, as a competent, proactive state is a threat to their
interests...

Oligarchs seek the destruction of oversight, which is why UK bodies
such as the Environment Agency and the Health and Safety Executive
have been comprehensively gutted. The same desire was the driving
force behind Brexit. They want the cessation of protest. They want a
failing NHS, to justify privatisation. They want malleable politicians
and a tame BBC. They get what they want, distorting every aspect of
national life. They pour money into [extreme] political movements,
which help capital to solve its perennial problem: democracy. The arc
of history bends towards injustice. But every so often it is broken
over the knee of catastrophe"

---

"Belarus-Cuba military cooperation discussed [btw two defense ministers in Minsk]"

---

"Israel: Sirens sound across Galilee amid Hezbollah rocket barrage"

---

"@scerruti@csed.social

I see a lot of people talking about UBI and it's impact of
individuals, but I think it misses a larger impact... [modern work]
created massive childcare issues and wreaked havoc on both schools and
family structures. Freeing up a parent to stay home would have
benefits by increasing wages for those remaining in jobs and improve
educational outcomes"

---

That speech sounded somewhat lefty. Hopefully we'll see some
improvement in UK \#Starmer

---

TASS: "Israeli strike on school in Gaza City kills five"

---

Firstpost: "Hamas says it has accepted US-backed Gaza ceasefire proposal"

---

Arab News: "NATO leaders will vow to pour weapons into Ukraine for
another year, but membership is off the table"

---

Forbes: "Vietnam’s All-Out Hydrogen Gambit.. In April 2024, Vietnam
and the United States embarked upon one of the world’s most ambitious
green hydrogen collaborative strategies. The [USAID] and [SC] Bank
Vietnam signed a [MOU] to support Vietnam’s transition towards a
hydrogen-centric renewable energy model. Building upon President Joe
Biden’s visit to Hanoi in September 2023, this MOU aims to facilitate
private-sector investment and help Vietnam achieve its net-zero
emission goals by 2050...

The Vietnamese strategy for hydrogen power..  aims at nothing less
than overturning the canon of hydrogen development. It aims to produce
up to 500,000 tons of hydrogen annually by 2030 and 10-20 million tons
of hydrogen annually by 2050. This would be equivalent to the UK’s
current annual electricity consumption. Most importantly, Vietnam
wants to use not just 'green hydrogen,' which is hydrogen fuel
generated by renewable energy sources, but it wants to position
hydrogen as the center of a modern energy ecosystem"

---


