# Week 16

TDB: "Kennedy got it wrong... JFK, who famously declaimed: 'Ask not
what your country can do for you. Ask what you can do for your
country.' It’s a good line... It’s also total BS... I’ve started to
think about Kennedy’s words with something resembling bitterness. Yes,
I’m grateful for the opportunities I’ve had in my life. But I can’t
honestly say they were given to me by 'America' any more than I can
say the macaroni and cheese I made for lunch was given to me by
Kraft. I paid for that mac and cheese and I have paid for America"

---

Chollet: "I'll be worried when they get to 70% on ARC without training
on the test set. That's my canary. We're very far today"

---

Wiki: "In 2023, researchers tested GPT-4 against a new benchmark
called ConceptARC, designed to measure abstract reasoning, and found
it scored below 33% on all categories"

---

"The Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus (ARC) is a unique benchmark
designed to measure AI skill acquisition and track progress towards
achieving human-level AI"

---

Morgan: "GPT-4 has become so lazy, it hardly does anything useful
anymore without tons of prompting and coercion. And that's when there
isn't a stream error. Stability is at an all time low too"

---

George Morgan: "Category theory will change machine learning
forever. It's the key to being able to describe symbolic reasoning"

---

Recent actions around H2 can perhaps reverse some of that damage.
But for now the ledger does not look good.

---

Even on fundamental issues like climate, US historically did the
[most damage](../../2021/01/historical-carbon-emissions.html#alltime). 

---

[Link](../../2023/02/keiser-unrigged.html)

---

No it *isn't*.. 

Tony Blair: "[2003] The US is a force for good in the world"

---

Brits and their rouge offspring have lost their way. Maybe the rest of
the world whose gov culture comes from militocracies should invade
both of them, and correct this. I'm talking about a giant alliance of
non-Anglo countries, first invade Britain, and then US, once invaded
place them under strict military rule lasting for about one century,
while correcting their weirdo biz-oriented, biz-controlled
culture. Then, gradually, they could be shifted towards a more modern
style democracy, and UK would be re-integrated into the EU.

---

"@miguel_pacheco@masto.pt

Toyota to make new Lunar Rover for NASA:

- Named Luna Cruiser, powered by an H2 fuel cell with a 10,000 Km range

- Carries two astronauts for up to 30 days, pressurized cabin

- Deployed in 2031, in Artemis VII mission"

<img width='200' src='https://i1.wp.com/olhardigital.com.br/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/toyota-2-695x500.jpg?w=695&resize=695,500&ssl=1'/> 

---

"@thomasfuchs@hachyderm.io

Computers as tools for humans are so useful exactly *because* they
can’t think and do tedious work like calculations or information
storage and retrieval for humans in a *deterministic* way.

It took like nearly 90 years of digital computers to make them
powerful enough to run a wasteful algorithm that pretends to think
(but doesn’t) and to deliver bullshit non-deterministic results while
using absurd amounts of computational and environmental resources."

---

You only have the right to exist *peacefully*. You had carved out a
place for yourself nudged between the German guilt, US/UK MIC
profitability, West Asia secterian tension, and general intransigence
on the part of others. There are ways to exist peacefully in that
region. Pull your head out of your ass.. 

---

H2 View: "AVL and Red Bull to develop high-density fuel cells for
racing and aviation"

---

Pulse: "Hyundai Motor ramps up hydrogen bus production in 2024"

<img width='340' src='https://file.mk.co.kr/meet/neds/2024/04/image_readtop_2024_276814_17131407955919706.jpg'/> 

---

The Verge: "Google fires 28 employees after protest over Israel cloud
contract"

---

Time: "Google provides cloud computing services to the Israeli
Ministry of Defense, and the tech giant has negotiated deepening its
partnership during Israel’s war in Gaza, a company document viewed by
TIME shows"

---

NYT: "E.V. Sales Are Slowing. Tesla's Are Slumping"

---

The Telegraph: "Pro-Palestinian medical activists block entrance to
NHS England HQ.. Demonstrators call for scrapping of ties with
Palantir Technologies over claims it provides the IDF with military
tech"

---

Palantir was founded by [this guy](../2022/ejagoffthiel2.jpeg) FYI

---

Rolling Stone: "Mike Gallagher pushed the bill to ban TikTok because
China can 'surveil its users.' Now, he's resigning and joining an
American surveillance firm [Palantir]"

---

Richard Murphy: "[England’s West Coast rail line problem] is the
consequence of profound mismanagement by Avanti, who are the private
sector operator of this line which has now been in chaos for so long
that the despair of those who need to use it is utterly justified.

We are used to hearing about the total failure of water companies by
now.

Avanti's management of the West Coast line, which has not enjoyed the
benefit of being subject to occasional state ownership, which
advantage the East Coast route has enjoyed, has been absolutely
disastrous"

---

"@gvwilson@mastodon.social

El Haji et al 2024: 'Using GitHub Copilot for Test Generation in
Python.. within an existing test suite, approximately 45.28% of the
tests generated by Copilot are passing tests; 54.72% of generated
tests are failing, broken, or empty tests. Furthermore, if we generate
tests using Copilot without an existing test suite in place, we
observe that 92.45% of the tests are failing, broken, or empty tests'"

---

"@countcol@mastodonapp.uk

'Time you enjoy wasting, was not wasted.'

John Lennon"

---

Recent frontline \#Sudan \#SAF \#RSF (mapping data source changed, no
before/after comparison). The block shown is RSF controlled territory.

[[-]](sdndata/map2.html)

---

NYT: "Invade Haiti, Wall Street Urged. The U.S. Obliged...  In the
drowsy hours of a December afternoon, eight American Marines strolled
into the headquarters of Haiti’s national bank and walked out with
$500,000 in gold, packed in wooden boxes...

[D]ecades of diplomatic correspondence, financial reports and archival
records reviewed by The New York Times show that, behind the public
explanations, another hand was.. pushing the United States to step in
and seize control of Haiti for the wealth it promised: Wall Street,
and especially the bank that later became Citigroup...

The United States dissolved Haiti’s parliament at gunpoint, killed
thousands of people, controlled its finances for more than 30 years,
shipped a big portion of its earnings to bankers in New York and left
behind a country so poor that the farmers who helped generate the
profits often lived on a diet “close to starvation level,” United
Nations officials determined in 1949..

'I helped make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City
Bank boys to collect revenues,' Maj. Gen. Smedley Butler, a leader of
the American force in Haiti, wrote in 1935, describing himself as a
'racketeer for capitalism'"

---

Tampico was an oil town, Standard Oil had interests there. US private
complex was likely looking for a reason to secure / expand their
interests, and they occupied the place using the incident as an
excuse.

---

Wiki: "The Tampico Affair began as a minor incident.. On April 9,
1914, nine sailors had come ashore to secure supplies and were
detained by Mexican forces. Commanding Admiral Henry Mayo demanded
that the US sailors be released.. Woodrow Wilson backed the admiral's
demand.. The conflict escalated when the Americans took the port city
of Veracruz, occupying it for more than six months. This contributed
to the fall of Huerta, who resigned in July 1914"

---

Phsy.org: "For the first time, scientists have managed to create
sheets of gold only a single atom layer thick. The material has been
termed goldene. According to researchers from Linköping University,
Sweden, this has given the gold new properties that can make it
suitable for use in applications such as carbon dioxide conversion,
hydrogen production, and production of value-added chemicals"

---

"Following a successful pilot project, the northern German federal
state of Schleswig-Holstein has decided to move from Microsoft Windows
and Microsoft Office to Linux and LibreOffice (and other free and open
source software) on the 30,000 PCs used in the local government" via
@unix_discussions@mastodon.social

---

The National: "On Wednesday, five justices at the UK’s highest court
unanimously ruled that the Tory government has breached its duties
over the right to take part in lawful strikes in what Unison’s general
secretary described as the 'most important industrial action case for
decades'"

---

FT: "Rail chaos prompts fresh calls to nationalise England’s West
Coast line"

---

"@fuck_cars_bot@botsin.space

'Carbrain moment'"

[[-]](https://files.botsin.space/media_attachments/files/112/269/550/258/620/729/small/5b7aec2bd25672d7.jpeg)

---

Smolin said "the leading theories are all consistent with the world’s
being supersymmetric".  The world is not supersymmetric. LHC results
did not confirm it. A big oops for the "leading theories".

---

[The Trouble with Physics](../../2024/04/the-trouble-with-physics-smolin.html), Smolin.

---

[Not Even Wrong](../../0119/2015/11/not-even-wrong-woit.html#susy), Woit

---

[Bankrupting Physics](../../2021/02/bankrupting-physics-unzicker.html), Unzicker.

---

Unfortunately for ST crowd after many years and trials SUSY was *not*
witnessed in the lab. 

"How Supersymmetry Saved String Theory.. [with the help of SUSY]
string theory could build a bridge from the bosons to the fermions,
allowing it to make the leap from just a theory of forces to a theory
of every single particle in existence"

---

In summary, String Theory is bust, hunting for more particles is a
fool's errand.

"Neil Turok on the simplicity of nature"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/e_Y-CjcFfdI?t=425)

---

"@LukasBrausch@mastodontech.de

\#TIL that installing a \#Brother printer with @debian [Linux] is
simply a piece of cake. I just pressed all the necessary buttons and
it works out of the box. So far, that has never ever happened
before. I didn't even have to install any drivers. I'm flabbergasted!"

---

"RMS drafted the first version of a license that could be used with
free software in 1989. Since then there have been few altercations in
it but its the term copyleft that he introduced still holds
true. Copyleft which is a play on the word copyright, essentially
means that if I give you a piece of software with full freedom to
modify, share and redistribute, you will not deprive recipients of
your modified version, of the same privilege"

---

The GPL license was created by Richard Stallman [RMS], the open-source
guru, programmer extraordinaire. Everyone in OSS knows his "printer
story", he used to make software additions to printers at an MIT lab
where he worked during the 80s, but when he was denied access to the
source code of a recent model, he felt that "intellectual property
rights that companies were applying to software was harming the
society and slowing down innovation". He initiated the GNU project and
GPL few years later. Many open software projects later used this
license, not the cuck alternatives, and flourished because of it.

---

Chris Bakke: "VCs in 2023: 'we made some bad investments in 2020 and
2021 but we've become quite disciplines'. VCs in 2024: 'we're excited
to be leading a $175M pre-seed in IHOP AI - a company that was formed
7 minutes ago by two former interns at Google Deepmind who are seeking
to revolutionize fast causal breakfasts by using LLMs'"

---

DE had invested a lot in this relationship my guess was it would
continue

"Xi Jinping Meets with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.. Xi noted that
this year marks the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the
all-round strategic partnership between China and Germany. Over the
past 10 years, despite tremendous changes in the international
landscape, China-Germany relations have maintained steady growth, and
bilateral cooperation has strengthened and deepened across the board,
providing impetus for the development of both countries. Currently,
transformation not seen in a century is accelerating across the globe,
and humanity faces growing risks and challenges. These problems can
only be resolved through major-country cooperation. As China and
Germany are respectively the second and third largest economies in the
world, the consolidation and development of their relations carries
significance that goes beyond the bilateral scope, and has a major
impact on the Eurasian continent and the entire world"

---

DW News: "German investment in China at record high despite economic
tensions"

---

Anything else? That is almost everything u need to win a war..

NYT: "Ukraine’s Big Vulnerabilities: Ammunition, Soldiers and Air
Defense"

---

Robert Reich @rbreich@masto.ai is speaking some truth, most
billionaires are *made* via a combination of "inherited wealth,
government subsidies, tax loopholes, labor exploitation, and policy
failures". "Can we stop perpetuating a myth that blames wealth
inequality on the choices of everyday people" he asks..

---

ZME Science: "70% of the land in Britain is still owned by 1% of the
population, largely descended from William the Conqueror’s army"

---

<img width='250' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/112/274/095/648/740/738/original/970ac778f197a69f.jpeg'/> 

---

Its interesting after the first "revolution" once corporate honchos
took charge, the Gilded Age started shortly after, a time of excess,
and insane concentration of wealth.

Turchin: "The American Republic has gone through two revolutionary
situations, as we’ve seen. The first one, which developed during the
1850s, was resolved by a social revolution, the American Civil War,
which replaced the antebellum ruling elites with the new corporate
ruling class. The second one, which peaked during the 1920s, was
resolved by the adoption of the reforms of the Progressive and New
Deal periods. ​Today, we are in a third revolutionary situation. How
will it be resolved—by a civil war, by reforms, or by some combination
of the two"

---

Turchin: "The president of the US Chamber of Commerce told the Chamber
in 1943, 'Only the willfully blind can fail to see that the old-style
capitalism of a primitive, free-shooting period is gone forever.' To
put this in perspective, today the Chamber of Commerce is one of the
organizations of the economic elite that pushes for the most extreme
forms of neoliberal market ​fundamentalism. In a letter to his brother,
President Dwight Eisenhower wrote:
			
>Should any political party attempt to abolish social security,
>unemployment insurance, and eliminate labor laws and farm programs,
>you would not hear of that party again in our political history. There
>is a tiny splinter group, of course, that believes you can do these
>things... Their number is negligible and they are stupid
			
Need it be said that Eisenhower was a Republican?

Barry Goldwater ran against Lyndon Johnson in 1964 on the platform of
low taxes and anti-union rhetoric. By today’s standards, Goldwater was
a mild conservative whose policies wouldn’t be that different from
those of, say, Bill Clinton. But he was regarded as a dangerous
radical, and business leaders abandoned his campaign in favor of
Johnson. Goldwater was defeated by a landslide"

---

Automation had been progressing at break-neck speed already before
this latest crop of "AI" tools.. Straight forward machine vision,
automated mechanics can and has been displacing jobs. Forget the hallucinating
parrots, be scared of [this](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/ui2zpsl8kg8ua58ggtcwe/automation1.gif?rlkey=odgcnuf1vpnldjqpn1g3ovm56&raw=1).
An incredibly fast seperator that works based on visual recognition.

---

McCarthy says he asked VP Biden for Javelin funding for UKR defense
back in 2015 and he said no. Good for him.

---

Bano: "Despite a persistent and boisterous chorus of 'supply guys' –
commentators and ostensible affordability campaigners, many of whom
are aligned with the homebuilding industry and are primarily
interested in the deregulation of planning law – the government’s own
analysis has shown that its housebuilding targets would have had a
relatively small effect on housing costs, even if they had been
achieved"

---

Bano, *Against Landlords*: "Before the 1980s the cost of housing was
much lower than it is today. Landlords could not command the
extravagant rents that we have come to take for granted. Private rents
were capped and regulated by law, and the large-scale provision of
council housing had diverted a very large number of would-be consumers
away from the private rental market altogether. The cost of securing
accommodation was much lower because of those cheaper rents (and, for
homeowners, consequentially lower house prices), and because of a
system that was generally less hospitable to the profiteering
activities of landlords, lenders and speculators.. But in the 1980s
the government deliberately and openly set out to change all
that.. the consequences have been disastrous.. On the other hand,
housing-based wealth is dangerously central to our national
economy. Landlordism alone accounts for twice as many people’s
livelihoods as the coal industry did at its peak, even before taking
into account the millions of owner-occupiers who rely on housing
wealth to sustain their day-to-day spending"

---

RF KKK is right on this one

RFK Jr: "[The war in Ukraine is] a war that should have never
happened. It's a war the Russians tried repeatedly to settle on terms
that were very, very beneficial to Ukraine and us. The major thing
they wanted was for us to keep NATO out of the Ukraine. The big
military contractors want to add new countries to NATO all the
time. Why? Then that country has to conform its military purchases to
NATO weapon specifications, which means certain companies, Northrop
Grumman, Raytheon, General Dynamics, Boeing and Lockheed, get a
trapped market"

---

Paper: "Huge amounts of plastic products are produced, utilized, and
discarded each year, contributing to the increasingly serious
ecological problem. Photoreforming, a solar-driven technology,
provides an uncomplicated route to simultaneously recycle plastics and
facilitate hydrogen (H2) production. Herein, we proposed innovative
CdS/NiS composites which used visible light to drive H2 evolution from
plastic wastes"

[[-]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0360319923040156)

---

Reuters: "Apple lost a bid to throw out a mass [UK] lawsuit valued at
just under $1 billion, brought in London on behalf of more than 1,500
app developers over its App Store fees"

---

Boehs: "The two richest companies, those two with their own search
indexes.. quietly downloaded all the text on the internet.. and fed it
into huge, glorified, energy consuming markov chains that we call
LLMs. Now, they encourage you to feed your questions to it, instead of
wading through all the shit they birthed. To users at this moment,
this proposition is immensely popular. Simultaneously, while users
jump ship from the web, website administrators continue to be lazy
with no regard for their best interests. They also view LLMs as game
changing. These products allow them to pump out more shit, much
faster. In this way, the vicious spiral begins.

I’m sure we all understand the most immediate problem hurtling at
us. AI is literally inbreeding as it continues to consume and
produce. Researchers have coined it 'Model Collapse', 'Model Autophagy
Disorder' and 'Habsburg AI'. It all means the same thing. The loss of
intelligence on the web is happening shockingly fast, and it’s only
accelerating. If you’ve been on Reddit or Twitter in the past few
months, the signs of bots chattering back and forth with each other
are unmistakable, while the platforms cheer it on and begin to sell it
back to the AI"

---

Nikkei Asia: "Japan pushes for hydrogen trains on local lines,
revamping safety rules"

---

DH: Investments of $180-200 billion in green hydrogen expected in
India by 2030’

---

"@miguel_pacheco@masto.pt

Rotterdam Port to win a new hydrogen import hub:

- Hub will handle compressed H2 and ammonia

- Redeliveries via barges, rail, trucks & H2 grid

- Developed by Global Energy Storage & Provaris Energy"

---

The Mainichi: "The Tokyo Metropolitan Government is doubling its
budget for hydrogen-related initiatives from fiscal 2024, seeing them
as key to combating climate change"

---

But it is a *great* moneymaker for the MIC.

James Warden: "NATO encourages free-riding on the part of our
partners; it encourages recklessness on the part of strategically
insignificant though wildly bellicose client states; it encourages
incredibly self-defeating behavior on the part of those nations that
want to join it; it encourages and helps enable the U.S. to meddle in
the Middle Eastern and North Africa where we have virtually no
business being"

[[-]](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/at-75-has-nato-outlived-its-use/)

---

Ars Technica: "Oregon Governor Tina Kotek today signed the state's
Right to Repair Act.. The law, like those passed in New York,
California, and Minnesota, will require many manufacturers to provide
the same parts, tools, and documentation to individuals and repair
shops that they provide to their own repair teams.. Oregon's bill goes
further, preventing companies from implementing schemes that require
parts to be verified through encrypted software checks before they
will function"

---

"@baldur@toot.cafe

Almost everything positive about LLMs you see today is based on
extremely unreliable evidence, much of it from some of the most
dishonest people you’ll find in tech (cryptocoiners, effective
altruists, etc.)

Given that these models are obscenely power-hungry during a global
climate crisis it’s my opinion that integrating these tools into your
daily work is inherently unethical and irresponsible"

---

Wiki: "A person with non-domiciled status, sometimes called a
'non-dom', is a person living in the United Kingdom who is considered
under British law to be domiciled (i.e. with their permanent home) in
another country. Non-doms pay UK tax to the UK government like all
other UK residents"

---

The Guardian: "‘Petrified’ non-doms poised to flee UK over Labour’s
tax plans, say experts Prospect of party closing Tory ‘loopholes’ if
elected prompts some wealthy individuals to explore a move overseas"

---

Deaton, *Economics in America*: "[Milton] Friedman liked tax
competition between countries and supported tax havens, because they
put a brake on governments’ ability to tax. And he repeatedly argued
that attempts to limit inequality of outcomes would not only stifle
freedom but, in the end, result in even more inequality. Left to
themselves, free markets would produce both freedom and equality.

It doesn’t seem to have worked out that way.

Instead, we got a world in which the Sackler family paid themselves
more than $14 billion while igniting and promoting an opioid epidemic
that has killed hundreds of thousands of Americans. Johnson & Johnson,
the makers of Band-Aid and Baby Powder, grew opium poppies in Tasmania
to fuel the opioid epidemic while the American military was bombing
the Taliban’s heroin supply in Helmand province. Private equity firms
discovered they could make money by buying up ambulance services and
staffing hospital emergency rooms with their own physicians who charge
'surprise' fees to patients even when their insurance includes the
hospital. Surprise fees in emergency rooms (and operating theaters)
were eliminated beginning in January 2022, but surprise bills for
ambulance services continue. If you need an ambulance, you are not in
the best position to find the best service or to bargain over prices;
instead, you are helpless and the perfect victim for a predator"

---

\#Dots \#Parrots

[[-]](https://substackcdn.com/image/fetch/w_1456,c_limit,f_webp,q_auto:good,fl_progressive:steep/https%3A%2F%2Fsubstack-post-media.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fpublic%2Fimages%2Fa7c27656-8373-4d57-b8a4-e52d02ac5f37_1165x1891.jpeg)

---

Xinhua: "Australian PM welcomes U.S. president's consideration of
dropping Assange prosecution"

---

"How much of Americans' tax money funds war?" \#AlJazeera

[[-]](https://youtu.be/yKI3y_kylmw)

---

AFR: "First Graphene has completed a 12-month project in the United
Kingdom to develop low-cost, high-performing electrocatalysts for
hydrogen production... Supported by AUD$183,000 (around USD 121,300)
in funding from Innovate UK, the project trialed production of
graphene enhanced water-splitting electrocatalysts... The Company
benchmarked the graphene enhanced, low-cost electrocatalysts against
two different commercial catalyst materials, assessing the product’s
stability and mass activity. Results indicated First Graphene’s
catalyst requires less energy to produce hydrogen when compared to a
commercial iridium catalyst in similar conditions"

---

"@bobwyman@mastodon.social

[H. J. RES. 54](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/54),
calling for a constitutional amendment to establish that corporations
aren't people, now has 80 sponsors in the House. Section 2 of the
resolution addresses campaign contributions. Personally, I think it
should be in an additional amendment since there are those who would
support one of these sections but not the other. I believe that an
amendment should be single-subject and not an omnibus"

---

OSI: "The supply-side value of widely-used Open Source software is
estimated to be worth $4.15 billion, and the demand-side value is much
larger, at 8.8 trillion"

---

Did the tourists from West Asia give up on the West? No visits to
Miami, LA?

TASS: "[2023/12] Tourists from Middle East countries form the bulk of
the demand for travels in Russia - they account for 38% of all
bookings"

---

Angela Nagle: "[2018] The Left Case against Open Borders.. With
obscene images of low-wage migrants being chased down as
criminals.. others drowning in the Mediterranean, and the worrying
growth of anti-immigrant sentiment across the world, it is easy to see
why the Left wants to defend illegal migrants against being targeted
and victimized. And it should. But acting on the correct moral impulse
to defend the human dignity of migrants, the Left has ended up pulling
the front line too far back, effectively defending the exploitative
system of migration itself"

---

He went to Maga-Lago to lobby.. A for effort. 

The Japan Times: "Cameron lobbies old adversary Trump to unlock Ukraine aid"

---

\#Egypt \#Protests

Turchin: "[Previous Egyptian president] Mubarak gained power in the
usual manner: by first working his way through the military ranks and
then becoming the heir apparent of his predecessor, Anwar
Sadat. However, once in power, he broke the rules of succession by
starting to groom his son, Gamal Mubarak, as successor. Gamal did not
work his way to power through the army ranks; instead, he earned ​an
MBA and became a leader of the new economic elites in Egypt. Had Gamal
succeeded his father as ruler of Egypt, it would have amounted to a
social revolution in which the old military elites were replaced by
the new economic elites. The army officers were clearly not enthused
about losing power. According to Korotayev’s reconstruction of the
intraelite conflicts underlying the revolution (followed by the
counterrevolution), when massive protests erupted in 2011, the army
stood aside and allowed the Mubarak regime to fall"

---
