# Week 3


Aftonbladet: "The war is creeping ever closer to Sweden if the
country's leadership is to be believed. It certainly worries many, but
in purely economic terms, the deteriorating security situation has a
clear winner: the arms industry. Swedish Saab's owners, headed by the
Wallenberg family, have become SEK 60 billion richer since Russia
invaded Ukraine."

---

TASS: "UN unable to deliver aid to Gaza due to ‘unrelenting
bombardment’ — Secretary General"

---

Reuters: "Australian foreign minister calls for ‘sustainable ceasefire’ in Gaza"

---

NYT: "Israel-Hamas War: Houthis Launch More Missiles Toward U.S. Ships"

---

Politico: "Trump scores an early knockout"

---

Politico: "Trump runs away with it"

---

No spending cut, "thriftiness" can tame that debt. There is only one place
that money can be taken from. Yeeah you know where that is. Take out
the big stick.

---

US federal spending in 2022 was around 6 trillion, the interest
payments of the debt are now a big chunk of that. Once interest
payments overwhelm the annual spending itself, some people are
going to start scratching their heads, and be forced to make some
tough choices.

---

```python
df = u.get_fred(1960, "A091RC1Q027SBEA")
df.plot(title="Federal Government Interest Payments")
plt.ylabel('Billions', fontsize = 10)
```

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/111/758/858/626/419/306/original/b5382bad0cf61a36.jpg)

---

Debt holders are not asking the 34 trillion federal debt to be paid
right away but the interest of that debt due has to be paid, and every
year it is growing massively along with the total debt.

---

Pikkety talked about a wealth tax in his *Capital in the Twenty-first Century*, 2014. 
It is doable.

---

Stevenson: "The tax system as it is is not really designed to tax
people whose income comes from wealth.. there is huge amount of wealth
in this country, not just housing but also commercial wealth, land,
shopping centers, office buildings, factories.. these are owned by
richer people, they generate enourmous amount of income from [it].
With the way the tax system is designed it is possible for rich people
to generate huge amounts of income from wealth, and to legally avoid a
lot of tax. They [certainly] don't have to pay income tax on most of
wealth based income. The end result is these people in many cases pay
rates as low as 10% or sometimes even lower, on the income from their
wealth.

What we actually have is a tax system that is progressive for ordinary
people, the rate is higher the more you earn, and once you get into
the realm of.. wealthy people, the rate starts to collapse.

I think it's it's quite interesting that.. the tax system is kind of
moving back towards.. Medieval Times where essentially working people
pay tax to the aristocracy.. Increasingly a big chunk of the tax that
you pay literally goes towards paying government debt interest to the
rich. You pay your tax - a lot of that goes to the rich then you pay
your rent - that goes to the rich you pay your mortgage - that goes to
rich you go to buy food and that goes to the landowners, you buy
energy and that goes to the energy owners..  [this] looks increasing
like a very extractive system..

The lack of taxation of the rich creates a big problem with flows of
wealth. Recently I've been really trying to lobby politicians, 
unsuccessfully, to start taxing wealth, tax working people less on
their income and tax wealth more.. I've been trying to push them to
tax people who have a wealth of over £10 million; 1% of their wealth,
and they don't [even] want to do that. But wealthy people will make
three, four, five percent income on their wealth anyway, so.. even if
you were to tax them one percent they would still generate an enormous
excess income that they could then use to compete with your kids to
buy property...

I should probably just talk briefly about VAT & NI.  [UK] National
Insurance is a form of income tax that only applies to working people,
only applies to work..  National Insurance [is] specifically targeted
at working people, then you have VAT which is on consumption, now very
rich people consume very very small percentage of their income so they
pay very little VAT.. VAT is targeted at ordinary people, National
Insurance targeted at working people. Income Tax [is] avoidable for
the rich, Inheritance Tax [is] avoidable for the rich.. The end result
is you have a tax system which looks progressive for ordinary people
because you're only comparing yourself to people around you who are
ordinary people at the same time you have this small group of people
who are phenomenally rich who are increasingly buying everything you
don't often get to see in day-to-day life that they are paying
nothing, generating huge amounts of income and using that income to
buy the rest of the assets. Who pays tax? If you're a working person
in an ordinary financial situation - YOU! Who doesn't pay tax? Very
wealthy families, the people who receive your mortgage payments your
rent payments, the money you spend on food and bills. They don't pay
any tax on that and they are then using that money to buy the rest of
the wealth, so it creates this really bad structural problem..

If we don't take any action against that, it is inevitable that in 20
years, 30 years, ordinary families will not have any assets left
basically. It will be very difficult to own property and if you do own
property you'll be forced to have an enormous mortgage"

---

"@emilymbender@dair-community.social

It is depressing how often Bender & Koller 2020 is cited
incorrectly. My best guess as to why this is is that people writing
about whether or not LLMs 'understand' or 'are agents' have such
strongly held beliefs about what they want to be true..

[We are cited] in this string: 'Do modern LLMs have beliefs, desires,
and intentions?..'

But we are emphatically not writing about LLMs having beliefs, desires
and intentions. We were debunking claims that LLMs
'understand'. Inasmuch as their apparent understanding is part of what
misleads people into attributing beliefs, desires, and intentions to
them"

---

"@angiebaby@mas.to

'Looks like you're using an ad-blocker'

Looks like you're trying to install 52 trackers on my computer"

---

"@jon@vivaldi.net

Lava flowing into Grindavík. First house being eaten by the
lava. Hopefully the flow will stop soon..."

[[-]](https://social-cdn.vivaldi.net/system/media_attachments/files/111/755/195/558/575/680/small/45d6b9e69dabfc90.png)

---

"@fuck_cars_bot@botsin.space

'Every city makes mistakes. But great cities fix them! 50 years ago
Utrecht constructed an urban highway here. Now they brought back the
water and green to create thriving public space for people. —
Catharijnesingel, Utrecht'"

[[-]](https://files.botsin.space/media_attachments/files/111/748/854/360/162/207/small/8e36ce158e0a9c03.png)

---

Jason Velazquez: "Where have all the websites gone?.. Somewhere
between the late 2000’s aggregator sites and the contemporary For You
Page, we lost our ability to curate the web. Worse still, we’ve
outsourced our discovery to corporate algorithms. Most of us did it in
exchange for an endless content feed... Who wouldn’t want a steady
stream of dopamine shots?

The rest of us, posters, amplifiers, and aggregators, traded our
discovery autonomy for a chance at fame and fortune. Not all, but
enough to change the social web landscape.

But that gold at the end of the rainbow isn’t for us. “Creator funds”
pull from a fixed pot. It’s a line item in a budget that doesn’t
change, whether one hundred or one million hands dip inside
it. Executives in polished cement floor offices, who you’ll never
meet, choose their winners and losers. And I’m guessing it’s not a
meritocracy-based system. They pick their tokens, round up their
shills, and stuff Apple Watch ads between them"

---

"@ids1024@fosstodon.org

All engineering is reverse engineering if you document things poorly enough"

---

It is all disintegrating before our eyes.. Many things known as
"correct", "right" in the past 40+ years is getting crushed. Truly
sad.

---

The evidence was strong before, it is overwhelming now.

---

If homogeneity is gone, the Big Bang is gone. [Kaput](../../2022/10/the-big-bang.html#homogeneous).

The Guardian: "Newly discovered cosmic megastructure challenges
theories of the universe.. the size of the Big Ring appears to defy a
fundamental assumption in cosmology called the cosmological
principle. This states that above a certain spatial scale, the
universe is homogeneous and looks identical in every direction"

---

WAPO: "Prominent Muslim journalist Mehdi Hasan has decided to quit
MSNBC rather than accept a demotion that saw him lose a regular Sunday
night program... The network had announced in November that Hasan
would lose his weekly show after three years but would remain as an
analyst and fill-in anchor.. U.S. Rep. Ilhan Omar called it 'deeply
troubling that MSNBC is canceling his show amid a rampant rise of
anti-Muslim bigotry and suppression of Muslim voices'"

---

Tisdall, The Guardian: "Biden alienated global (and much American)
opinion by rashly pledging unconditional support to Israel after the
Hamas atrocities and vetoing UN ceasefire plans. His Middle East
policy looks outdated and out of touch. The US, never popular in the
Arab world, was tolerated as a necessary evil. No longer..

China and Russia are Iran’s new best friends. And it’s this, more than
other factors, that has transformed Iran’s fortunes, making it a power
to be reckoned with. The Ukraine invasion, and the prior Sino-Russian
'no limits' cooperation pact, was the catalyst for this transition"

---

AP News: "[2023/12] Since the war erupted on Oct. 7, at least 92
attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria have been claimed by an
umbrella group of Iran-backed Iraqi militants dubbed the Islamic
Resistance in Iraq. The militants say their attacks are in retaliation
for Washington’s backing of Israel and its military presence in Iraq
and Syria"

---

"@CriticalCupcake

70 years old, but as relevant as ever"

[[-]](https://media.tech.lgbt/media_attachments/files/111/753/422/996/296/007/small/f7d31b6bec00899d.png)

---
