# Week 5

Canary Media: "Thanks to generous subsidies, the world is about to
start making a lot more low- and zero-carbon hydrogen. These charts
show how"

[[-]](https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/hydrogen/the-dawn-of-the-clean-hydrogen-economy-visualized)

---

.. required skill as in the skill required to sift through the garbage
code generated by so-called AI. Some thought the tech would save
people work but ended up creating more. Hey, Big Tech got its buzz,
"excitement" and little bump in its stock price, all is well and good.

---

"@jasongorman@mastodon.cloud

Meanwhile, on LinkedIn: 'Reading code effectively will soon be a
required skill for many developers in the same way writing code is
today'"

---

"@thatprivacyguy@eupolicy.social

In what can only be seen as Alphabet's blatant refusal to obey EU law,
it was announced over the weekend that they would introduce Bard to
Android Messages App and intercept all messages (past and future) for
the purpose of training it - in breach of EU's rules on interception
of communications under Article 5(1) of Directive 2002/58/EC.

To make it worse Alphabet know this is illegal after they were caught
intercepting WiFi communications in 2010 with their Streetview cars"

---

Forbes: "The Hydrogen Economy: What Our World Could Look Like & Why It
Matters.. Last year was the hottest on record and estimated global
wildfire carbon emissions increased by 30% in 2023 compared to 2022,
according to the EU’s Copernicus Climate Change Service... Government
entities recognize hydrogen use as a necessary enabler of the energy
transition. Recently, at COP28, more than 30 countries including the
United States formally recognized the importance of clean hydrogen in
decarbonization and meeting global energy needs"

[[-]](https://www.forbes.com/sites/honeywell/2024/01/29/the-hydrogen-economy-what-our-world-could-look-like--why-it-matters/?sh=649a81cc2386)

---

VS Magazine: "The 'Coding on Copilot' whitepaper from GitClear sought
to investigate the quality and maintainability of AI-assisted code
compared to what would have been written by a human. In other words:
'Is it more similar to the careful, refined contributions of a Senior
Developer, or more akin to the disjointed work of a short-term
contractor?'

The answer to that is summarized in this paragraph from the
whitepaper's abstract:

'We find disconcerting trends for maintainability. Code churn -- the
percentage of lines that are reverted or updated less than two weeks
after being authored -- is projected to double in 2024 compared to its
2021, pre-AI baseline"

---

"The UK tax system is a con" - the conversation about the *New Statesman*
article written by Lambert, the guest.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/FvChkJIfdkc?t=316)

---

Frontline changes 01/22 - 01/30. Holy Tabaivka..

[[-]](mbl/2024/ukrmap4.html)

---

\#Photoncycle

[[-]](https://youtu.be/bpvGz0AC51k?t=21)

---

Sifted: "Norwegian startup Photoncycle says it can store solar energy
from summer to winter cheaper than batteries..  The idea for the
company began when Brandtzaeg was a visiting fellow at MIT in the
US.. Brandtzaeg holds up a chalk-looking substance: 'With this, you
can store electricity 20 times as densely as in a lithium battery.'

'We're locking up the hydrogen molecules in a solid to basically fix
them. We're using a reversible, high-temperature fuel cell, so we're
assisting a fuel cell which both can produce hydrogen and electricity
in the same cell,' he says...That means no need to cool the hydrogen
down, making it non-flammable and giving it a higher density than an
ion-lithium battery"

---

MMT was popular for a while, they had MSM exposure, my speculation is
its inventors said some things that were useful for the rich. Their
main message seemed to be "printing money is not a problem, print it
until you see inflation", read: no need for taxes (esp wealth
tax). Corps would like that message so they pushed it. Of course the
approach is unworkable. If money is debt accrued when FED print the
money, we can't willy nilly print it to give it to even infra
projects, or people. We surely cannot print money that is not tied to
debt that is failed-state, hyperinflation territory. Plus, if due to
lopsidedness of econ the money flows to the rich and big corps anyway,
they will end up with more wealth just like they did after QE and
Covid. So MMT while might be 'useful', as in idiot, for some, it was
not sound policy.

---

The Japan Times: "Honda and GM fuel cell venture launches commercial
production"

---

Politico: "[I]nfluential conservative voice Tucker Carlson called two
senators who pushed for a swift U.S. military response against Iran
after the attack 'fucking lunatics'"

---

"@jon@vivaldi.net

My survey on whether people believe Microsoft when they claim that you
need a Microsoft account for security reason is finished and the
results are pretty clear.

2% believe Microsoft is telling the truth.

98% believe it is because Microsoft wants to track across devices.

Time for Microsoft to do the right thing and allow people to have
local accounts!"

---

\#CGTN \#Sachs

[[-]](https://youtu.be/q_f6YxzDvag)

---

This is the con, a convicted felon, now a sitting minister in ISR
cabinet. 

---

"Hague Shmague"

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GExdeuOWsAE5rYJ.jpg)

---

The ICJ decision must have unsettled them. It was a poke in the eye
for Zionists.

---

Haaretz: "Netanyahu Ministers Join Thousands of Israelis in 'Resettle
Gaza' Conference Calling for Palestinians' Transfer"

---

WION: "Russian warship conducts anti-submarine exercise in South China
Sea"

---

"@miguel_pacheco@masto.pt

Nikola truck makes 519 Km round trip under -10°C in one tank

- Round trip from Calgary to Edmonton

- Tank still had hydrogen when returning

- Displaying H2 fuel cell tech capability to perform under freezing
  temperatures"

---

Clean Technica: "Plug Power announced that its new liquid green
hydrogen plant in Woodbine, Georgia..'A truly unique accomplishment,
this is the largest electrolytic liquid hydrogen production plant, and
largest PEM electrolyzer deployment operating in the U.S.,
representing a landmark achievement in Plug’s build-out of a
vertically integrated hydrogen ecosystem,' Plug Power said of
itself. The plant will push out 15 tons of liquid green hydrogen per
day"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.masto.host/mastopt/cache/preview_cards/images/008/342/451/original/c4683c06da45f23f.png'/> 

---

Andersen: "[B]y the 1980s, unions were reduced to desperate parochial
struggles to save jobs in declining heavy industries and, as mistrust
of government grew, to unionizing more government employees. Moreover,
the left offered no inspiring, politically plausible national economic
vision of a future. In response to economic Reaganism, the national
liberals were committed to preserving the social welfare status quo
for old people and the (deserving) poor, and to convincing America
that Democrats were now modern and pragmatic... Very few believed
anymore that unreasonable profits could even be a thing"

---

Dude calls angle $\phi$ in figure $f$ in text, $\gamma$ in figure, $g$
in text. Good thing I remembered my Greek letters, $f=\phi$,
$g=\gamma$.

---

"@jasongorman@mastodon.cloud

Excited to announce Skweejy, my new tech start-up that brings together
people with windows and people with ladders and buckets (who our
lawyers are emphatically clear are in no way Skweejy employees). It
most certainly isn't just a window cleaning business with an app. No
Ma'am"

---

Hedges: "The moral Universe has now been turned upside down. Those of
us who oppose genocide are accused of advocating it, those who carry
out genocide are said to have the right to defend themselves. Vetoing
ceasefires and providing 2,000 lb bombs to Israel that throw out out
metal fragments in densely packed refugee camps is the road to peace.
Refusing to negotiate to free the hostages, bombing hospitals,
schools, mosques, churches, ambulances and refugee camps obliterating
families are routine acts of war. Carrying out genocide in Gaza is a
way to de-radicalize Palestinians, attacking Houthi bases in Yemen is
deescalating a regional conflict. And remember it is not only Israel
which has abandoned its citizens held hostage in Gaza, there are
hundreds of Palestinians who are US citizens or permanent residents
trapped in Gaza and the Biden Administration is making no discernable
effort, as demanded by US law, to secure their safety"

---

Jeffrey Sachs: "US Foreign Policy Is a Scam Built on Corruption.

US foreign policy seems to be utterly irrational. The US gets into one
disastrous war after another -- Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya,
Ukraine, and Gaza. In recent days, the US stands globally isolated in
its support of Israel’s genocidal actions against the Palestinians,
voting against a UN General Assembly resolution for a Gaza ceasefire
backed by 153 countries with 89% of the world population, and opposed
by just the US and 9 small countries with less than 1% of the world
population.

In the past 20 years, every major US foreign policy objective has
failed.. American foreign policy is not at all about the interests of
the American people. It is about the interests of the Washington
insiders, as they chase campaign contributions and lucrative jobs for
themselves, staff, and family members. In short, US foreign policy has
been hacked by big money..

As a result, the American people are losing big. The failed wars since
2000 have cost them around $5 trillion in direct outlays, or around
40,000 per household. Another 2 trillion or so will be spent in the
coming decades on veterans’ care. Beyond the costs directly incurred
by Americans, we should also recognize the horrendously high costs
suffered abroad, in millions of lives lost and trillions of dollars of
destruction to property and nature in the war zones...

Yet to describe these gargantuan costs is also to explain the twisted
“rationality” of US foreign policy. The $1.5 trillion in military
outlays is the scam that keeps on giving—to the military-industrial
complex and the Washington insiders—even as it impoverishes and
endangers America and the world..

To understand the foreign-policy scam, think of today’s federal
government as a multi-division racket controlled by the highest
bidders...  Interestingly, the Health Industry division rivals the
Foreign Policy division as a remarkable financial scam. America’s
health outlays totaled an astounding $4.5 trillion in 2022, or roughly
36,000 per household, by far the highest health costs in the world,
while America ranked roughly 40th in the world among nations in life
expectancy. A failed health policy translates into very big bucks for
the health industry, just as a failed foreign policy translates into
mega-revenues of the military-industrial complex"


[[-]](https://www.jeffsachs.org/newspaper-articles/wspgnywf65g3dw8wnkb6x4x84wrmz7)

---

"@wilbr@glitch.social

Capitalists haven't had a unique idea in hundreds of years. The idea
always seems to be either finding or creating a commons to enclose,
and then either subdividing or breaking apart those artificial
enclosures like some kind of shell game.

The work of helping people live a decent life is roughly the same no
matter what, it's just a game of monopolist musical chairs as to who
gets to control or renovate the circumstances of that work and its
delivery"

---

The gov pictured in 1984 is bad, but why emphasize governance rather
than opressive corporate power? Emphasis is key.

---

The 1984 angle sounds anti-government gaslighting, and it fits to the
spirit of the age. Pro-rich, anti-goverment. They fooled an entire
generation with this stuff, and now the results are in. A complete
catastrophy.

Andersen: "January 1984, Apple had introduced the Macintosh. Its
famous Super Bowl ad, based on George Orwell’s *1984*, featured a
heroine smashing the tyrants’ huge telescreen, a lone nonconformist
underdog spectacularly defying the oppressive Establishment. It suited
the moment and digital early adopters who were politically aware but
not actually, specifically political, in a stylish little allegory
with which everyone from Ayn Rand fans to Hart fans to Deadheads might
identify.  Steve Jobs, not yet thirty, had just become the sort of
emblematic generational avatar that Gary Hart pretended he wasn’t
desperate to be. In an.. interview, Jobs bragged about his vast wealth
— 'at 23, I had a net worth of over a million .. and at 25, it was
over $100 million' — and about his indifference to it: 'I’m the only
person I know that’s lost a quarter of a billion dollars in one year.'
Jobs didn’t mind coming across as a jerk, just not a standard business
jerk—because he was 'well-grounded in the... sociological traditions
of the ’60s,' like other Silicon Valley baby boomers"

---

Clean Technica: "BASF is also jumping into the anti-LNG
pool... Höegh..  specializes in building platforms for offshore LNG
operations, and it apparently it is interested in applying its
know-how to ammonia. As reported by the maritime news organization
Riviera, the consortium has received funding of €5.9M (about $6.5
million USD) from the government of Norway to develop an
ammonia-to-hydrogen pipeline. Norway is also interested in the green
ammonia angle, which makes sense considering its access to offshore
wind resources. 'Green ammonia acts as a liquid battery with a high
energy density compared with alternative solutions for storing and
transporting renewable power. The infrastructure for the large-scale
transport of ammonia at sea already exists via a fleet of gas tankers
having ammonia on the cargo list,' Riviera explains"

---

Post 2008 QE, although it saved econ from total collapse, helped to
push inequality to greater heights. QE was about the FED buying bonds
from the banks, so they ended up with money *now* instead of a future
income from that debt. The hope was they would lend this money to
businesses, who would hire more people, pay them better. That did not
happen. The rich do not have to pay workers better, they can simply
buy existing assets to park their money at. They did precisely that
post 2008, stock prices and house prices went through the roof, and
people got nothing.

Gov cannot forget the final step of any cash injection into economy,
the money will end up with in the hands of the wealthy, so they need
to be taxed, to both lower inequality, lower asset prices, and also to
plug the budget deficit that was accrued during the injection phase.

---

"@jk@mastodon.social

Whether it’s true or not that '90% of everything is crap', the tech
giants are investing heavily in a hot new technology that promises to
boost that figure up to an impressively reliable 'five-nines'
percentage"

---

It's good to admit.. this is a nice thing to do

The Guardian: "Denmark admits role in Nato airstrikes on Libya that killed 14
civilians in 2011"

---

\#Zionism

[[-]](https://youtu.be/3QKeBb3UKWQ?t=392)

---

Arab News: "Long gone is the Joe Biden of February 2023, strolling
confidently through the streets of Kyiv, basking in the role as
champion of the Ukrainian cause in the fight against Vladimir Putin’s
Russia. Nearly one year after that triumphant appearance, the US
president is instead facing the harsh realities of running for
re-election while bogged down in one stagnant war and navigating the
volatility of another, as the conflict in Gaza threatens at any moment
to ignite the entire Middle East"

---

"[British] Oil tanker on fire for hours following Houthi attack"

<img width='200' src='http://img.youtube.com/vi/lIb78r6lEVc/0.jpg'/> 

---

