# Week 26


Truthdig: "I.. [read] peer-reviewed publications arguing.. addiction
with opioid prescriptions never really happens. My medical school
years (2005-2009) saw a blizzard of such academic papers, all claiming
that we could relax and start slinging product. Hundreds of those
papers — 439, to be exact— cited for their evidence one mysterious
paper, published in the New England Journal of Medicine... [That paper
enjoyed] glowing write-ups in mainstream media. TIME magazine called
it a 'landmark study,' one that showed fears of opioid addiction had
been 'exaggerated,' and were 'basically unwarranted.' Scientific
American said Porter & Jick’s 'extensive study' was evidence for a new
modern understanding that 'morphine taken for pain is not
addictive.'....

The letter’s authors were Jane Porter, a grad student, and Hershel
Jick, a physician. Porter and Jick reported reviewing 11,000 patients
in 'our current files' at a Boston hospital who got treated with an
opioid and finding only four cases of 'reasonably well-documented
addiction', whatever any of that means. As evidence goes, it’s so
low-quality for decision-making purposes that it borders on
useless... Many years later, unscrupulous pharmaceutical companies
dusted off this [paper].. Their marketing departments had come up with
a clever use for it. They would claim that addiction happens far less
than 1% of the time (four cases out of 11,000 would be 0.036%). They
would cite The New England Journal of Medicine. Then they would grin
slyly, because no one ever reads the footnotes"

---

"@burgerdrome@aus.social

ME: Hello computer! Please show me what I was doing recently

COMPUTER IN THE 1980's: l cease to exist when I am powered off. Please
start whatever you were doing from scratch

COMPUTER IN THE 2000's: Yep here you go champ

COMPUTER IN THE 2020's: I stored 10,000 identical copies of what you
were doing in 500 different global datacentres at a carbon footprint
equivalent to leaving a semi-trailer idling 24/7... Let me know which
one you want and I'll do my best to figure it out. By the way here are
10 things which are similar to what you were doing and 9 of them are
ads. Do you like this? Please select 'I love this very much' or 'I'll
be in love with this later' to continue"

---

A major problem with the electricity infrastructure is its production
and consumption must be in perfect sync. If 100 is produced, 80 is
needed, 20 goes to waste (or never produced to begin with). This is
cumbersome tech, impractical. Energy production and consumption needs
to be decoupled, excess can be stored using green methods via clean
fuels.

---

CleanTechnica: "Green Hydrogen To Rescue 'Stranded' Offshore Wind
Resources.. [It is possible] excess electricity from offshore wind
turbines is shunted to electrolyzer systems primarily at night, when
wind speeds pick up but electricity demand slows down.. The hydrogen
produced from offshore electrolyzers would be transported to shore by
pipeline or by ship...

'Wind Europe have identified that a considerable portion of the
low-cost offshore wind resource in Europe is located within the North
Sea, much of which is at a significant distance from shore and from
existing electrical infrastructure.. This configuration presents a
significant opportunity for the production and storage of hydrogen at
the source of electricity production offshore, leveraging existing
infrastructure in the region' [Net Zero org explains]"

---

"@arstechnica@mastodon.social

Internet Archive forced to remove 500,000 books after publishers’
court win.. fans beg publishers to stop emptying the open library"

---

"A French fueling systems company claims it has speed-tested its
internal-combustion engine, burning hydrogen fuel in a 656-mile
(1,056-km) endurance run over a period of 12 hours.. The company,
Phinia, says one of its hydrogen ICE (H2ICE) vans was tested fully
loaded in temperatures as low as -4C (25F). It claims this test
illustrates the potential of hydrogen as a practical alternative fuel
for ICE-powered vehicles with particular focus on high-intensity
applications in the trucking and light-commercial-vehicle
transportation industries"

---

Citizen complains "I am going bankrupt due to medical bills",
"monopoly suffocating my choices". The centrist response is "fuck
you". Who thinks like that? This has been normie politics of the past
40 years.

---

Nicolai Petro is right.. far-left, far-right traditionally had extreme
positions, center was safety, the middle position. But recently center
is extremist - they expanded NATO, hawkishly provoked Ukraine's big
neighbor, brushed off any peace attempt / negotiation while risking WW
III. Now the so called far-left and right are promoting a sane
solution (oddly called "extremist" bcz of it). Lest we forget the
neo-lib, globalist, ultra-free market ideology of today's center was
*always* an extremist approach historically. Thanks to decades of
propaganda people forgot how off-kilter these muckers truly are, in
worldview, solutions, and default positions.

---

The Guardian: "UK children shorter, fatter and sicker amid poor diet
and poverty, report finds.. Food Foundation says height of
five-year-olds falling, child obesity up by a third and type 2
diabetes by a fifth"

---

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

Probably the funniest thing there is, despite having an NPU, you need
an internet connection to use it in Paint.

MS accidentally published a new version of Recall..  (that’s why the
Windows canary builds got withdrawn). Obviously, I haven’t used it yet
- but I am in a chat channel with a bunch of security and privacy
researchers, and: oh boy, there will be a lot to talk about if that
feature actually launches like that"

[[-]](https://cyberplace.social/system/media_attachments/files/112/647/999/514/741/329/small/6c6298dfbf2d3385.jpeg)

---

NYT: "Putin Came to Asia to Disrupt, and He Succeeded"

---

Reuters: "The European Commission has signed off on about 3 billion
euros ($3.2 billion) of planned German state aid for building a system
of hydrogen pipelines known as the Hydrogen Core Network (HCN). Berlin
plans to give financial guarantees to allow companies that build and
run the 20 billion euro network to obtain more favourable loans to
cover initial losses during the ramp-up phase from 2025. Encouraging
the uptake of hydrogen outweighs any distortion to EU competition and
trade from the scheme, the Commission said on Friday"

---

Emerging Technology News: "HTEC plans to deploy 100 H2 fuel-cell e-
trucks in Canada"

---

The American Conservative: "A Vision for a New NATO.. Expansion was a
misstep, but the situation is not unsalvageable—history offers clues
to a better way...

On an unusually cloudy July day in London in 1990, the heads of state
and government at the annual NATO summit declared with sunny optimism
that a new era beckoned in central and eastern Europe. The declaration
itself was banal bureaucratese: invitations to initiate diplomatic
contacts, plans to prepare a force structure that would move away from
'forward defense' towards 'flexible response.'.. 

Secretary of State James Baker had personally assured Gorbachev in
February that NATO would move 'not one inch' eastward. This pledge was
repeated in some form or other by NATO Secretary-General Manfred
Wörner, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Margaret Thatcher,
Francois Mitterrand, and President George H. W. Bush. British Prime
Minister John Major, when asked by Soviet Marshal Dmitri Yazov about
East European leaders’ interest in NATO membership, reassured him that
'nothing of the sort will happen.'..

[A] careful study of Russian reactions to various phases of NATO
enlargement gives the impression of a rational power originally
determined to be a friend if not an ally of the West... The surprise
in Moscow was therefore palpable when the NATO enlargement study was
launched in 1995, leading Boris Yeltsin to declare that the Cold War
was slowly being replaced with a 'Cold Peace.' The pro-Western
democrats in Russia naturally felt betrayed, rightly recognizing NATO
expansion as a threat to their domestic influence"

---

Gjovik's office, while she worked at Apple, was on an EPA Superfund
site (a place marked as extremely toxic), Apple fired her for
complaining to the government about it.

---

"@ashleygjovik@mastodon.social

My latest civil amended complaint is now filed!"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/112/639/175/007/308/726/original/c418c717f5a79798.png'/> 

---

"The richest men on Earth own most of Hawaii while most of us don't 'own'
a single acre of our US-illegally occupied home, that hasn't yet been
bombed into a toxic waste dump by the US military"

---

"@ben@werd.social

Earning a decent, reliable income as a social-media creator is a
slog—and it’s getting harder. Platforms are doling out less money for
popular posts and brands are being pickier about what they want out of
sponsorship deals"

---

Stoller: "Josh Hawley and Matt Gaetz.. saw big business as an
existential threat, arguing that large firms were simply too powerful
to co-exist with an elected government, as Trump had said in 2016
about media conglomerates. Others, like House Judiciary Chair Jim
Jordan and House GOP leader Steve Scalise, retreated to what they
knew, which was to treat big business as part of the Republican
political machine, but needing a little wayward discipline"

---

Stoller: "Northrop-Orbital merger.. placed one corporation in charge
of our nuclear arsenal"

---

@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

<img width='340' src='https://cyberplace.social/system/media_attachments/files/112/654/932/084/144/189/original/e91d62c6e790d8c7.png'/> 

---

Quora: "[W]hen the [French] PM is from an opposite group (this
situation is called cohabitation) his/her powers become clearer. This
happens when the majority in the national assembly changes during
presidential office, the President has to choose a PM from the new
majority (not legally but strategically, and this has happened 3 times
since the beginning of the 5th Republic in 1958). There the PM has
democratic legitimacy because the change in majority means that the
citizens are unsatisfied with the President's party's policy, so it
becomes politically dangerous for the President to oppose the PM's
actions, especially the choice of the ministers, and refusing to sign
the decrees implementing new laws (it happens though).  As you can
guess cohabitation periods are complicated, with many tensions and
more or less difficulties to govern considering the actors' ability to
find compromises and to cooperate with each other"

---

ABC News: "Far-right leader Bardella backpedals on taking France out
of NATO strategic military command.. The far-right leader angling to
become France’s prime minister after the country’s upcoming
parliamentary election has backtracked on the party’s previous promise
to pull out of NATO’s strategic military command"

---

It was a good call, both for him and FR; otherwise prez had to govern
under a suspicion of legitimacy there'd a bizarre lull. By calling for
snap elections u throw down the gauntlet to the electorate, "you
voted for the oppo for EU, do you want them to govern the country as
well?"  Now people will either back centrists out of the usual fear of
far-right, or the opposition gets a mandate and finally have a seat in
governance. Either way the lull is resolved.

F24: "[Macron] stunned the nation by calling the polls for June 30 and
July 7 after the far-right National Rally (RN) trounced his centrist
alliance in EU elections earlier this month... But the president hit
back on Tuesday, saying dissolving the National Assembly was 'the
heaviest, the most serious, but the most responsible solution' after
the EU election debacle"

---

QNS: "Salvation Army activates cooling centers around Queens amid heat
wave"

---

Biden net approval hovers around -17%, he still has the advantage
taking other parameters into account (incumbency, a non-crashing
economy). But let's not count out Trump. An "Alpha Team" usually does
not run during unfavorable times, for '24-like races it's been beta
types that run, historically, think Hillary '16, or Mitt '12.

---


Arab News: "UK PM Sunak’s Conservatives set for heavy election defeat,
polls forecast"

---

NYT: "More than eight months of fighting between Israel and Hamas has
destroyed buildings and infrastructure across the Gaza Strip, leaving
more than 39 million tons of debris and exacerbating an already dire
health crisis there, according to [UN]"

---

