# Global E-mail Patterns Reveal “Clash of Civilizations”

[Link](http://www.technologyreview.com/view/512116/global-e-mail-patterns-reveal-clash-of-civilizations/)

In 1992 [..] Samuel Huntington suggested that future conflicts would
be driven largely by cultural differences. He went on to map out a new
world order in which the people of the world are divided into nine
culturally distinct civilisations. These include: Western
civilisation; Latin American civilisation; the Orthodox world of
former Soviet Union countries; the Sinic civilisation including China,
the Koreas and Vietnam; the Muslim world of the greater Middle East;
Sub-Saharan Africa and so on [..].

[Researchers] have analysed a global database of e-mail messages, and
their locations, sent by  more than 10 million people over the space
of a year. State and co say that the pattern of connections between
these people, clearly reflects the civilisations mapped out by
Huntington. In other words, the way we send e-mails is a reflection of
the mesh of civilisations that is an important driver of future
conflict [..]. The researchers then counted the instances in which
users swapped messages with each other, considering this to be
evidence of a tie between the countries where these users were
located. This gave them a simple count of the number of ties between
pairs of countries around the world.

---

Actually a more proper definition would be that the researchers found
"cultural blocks"; noone can know for sure these blocks would "clash"
(it does make a flashier title however).

The existence of these blocks confirms what we've been saying for some
time  - technology strengthens internal connections of existing
blocks, and globalization, as a rule, is an inferior method to explain
world events. It is not some unstoppable force that just grows and
grows. In terms of tech, just because you can watch some "bonsai cam"
webcasting from Japan does not mean you will. Are you interested in
bonsai? Is it part of your culture?













