# Week 26 

<img width="95%" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/card_img/1539729033411305475/49pJjrJE?format=jpg&name=small"/>

IHS Markit: "Germany fast tracks proposal for Norwegian blue and green
hydrogen pipeline.. Norway is seeking to 'rapidly' firm up plans to
export blue and green hydrogen it produces to Germany, potentially via
a pipeline that would rival one being developed in Denmark... The
nations jointly agreed to conduct a feasibility study at a 16 March
meeting between Norwegian Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, Norwegian
Petroleum and Energy minister Terje Aasland, and German Minister of
Trade and Industry Jan Christian Vestre"

---

The Hydrogen Standard: "The prospects for green hydrogen have been
given a boost as a market landgrab by oil and gas majors
continues. June has seen BP and TotalEnergies buying stakes in
projects with a combined production capacity of 2.6 million tonnes a
year. BP said it was taking operating rights and 40.5% stake in the
Asian Renewable Energy Hub, a planned 26 GW renewable energy complex
in Pilbara, Western Australia, Upon completion, the hub should be able
to deliver 1.6 million tonnes ofgreen hydrogen a year, BP
said. TotalEnergies, meanwhile,said it was taking a stake in Adani New
Industries Limited of India, which is aiming to produce a million
tonnes of green hydrogen a year by 2030.

While the announcements clearly show oil majors are warming to green
hydrogen,the industry has not yet given up on more controversial blue
synthesis. Saudi Aramco said in its sustainability that it intends to
produce 11 million tonnes of low-carbon ammonia by 2030, which would
require million tonnes of blue hydrogen.

Nevertheless, the extent to which oil companies are backing green
hydrogen production is helping to turbocharge the growth of the
industry. In May, Research firm Reports it expected the green hydrogen
market to grow from 300m in 2020 to 9.8bn dollars in 2028, a CAGR of
almost 55%.

'The investments committed by BP and TotalEnergies confirm the
industry's confidence in hydrogen technology.' said analyst firm Wood
Mackenzie's vice president Prakash Sharmain a press note. 'After a
100-fold jump in low carbon hydrogen project announcements over
thepast three years, major energy players now seem willing to raise
green investments'

Having oil and gas majors battle it out for market dominance is pretty
much the best thing that could happen to green hydrogen, not just
because of the massive war chests that these companies possess—
bloated further by recent fuel price rises—but also becasue their
vertically integrated operations allow them to improve distribution
and end use of the fuel.

It is becoming clear that the oil industry intends to dominate green
hydrogen production similar to its dominance in fossil fuels. Having
made estimated '$100bn in the first quarter of this year alone, they
are better placed than anyoneto drive growth in the sector"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/H2Standard/status/1540625642097709056)

---

H2 Central: "Germany and the United Arab Emirates will hold further
talks on hydrogen and clean energy this week as the European country
seeks long-term solutions to wean itself off Russian gas in the wake
of Moscow’s attack on Ukraine...

The OPEC member is investing in the production of blue hydrogen, which
is made from natural gas in a process that captures carbon emissions
instead of allowing them to be released into the atmosphere"

---

"[Shell] Puristar® R0-20 is a robust, versatile, and proven catalyst
that excels at removing trace oxygen from the hydrogen stream
following electrolysis..  purification is a critical step required for
further processing, transport, and usage of hydrogen as an energy
source or chemical feedstock"

---

H2 View: "German hydrogen-powered truck revealed.. Clean Logistics
unveiled its new hydrogen-powered truck to the public at Stade Airport
in Lower Saxony, Germany. Dubbed, Fyuriant, the model is powered by
two 120kW PRISMA fuel cell systems, developed by Shanghai-based REFIRE
technologies, providing a milestone for the two companies who hope to
usher in a new era of clean road freight transport.

The new truck is equipped with a fuel tank which can carry 43kg of
compressed hydrogen, with the truck offering a range of over 400km,
with a refuelling time of less than 15 minutes, the company said"

---

H2 View: "[South African] Government Commits to Supporting a Hydrogen Project in The Western
Cape""

---

"@EnergyNews_Biz

The consortium H2 Green Valley, led by REN, will invest 28.5 million
euros to build in Sines, by 2025, the first 10 kilometers of a new
pipeline 100% prepared to transport green hydrogen, according to
Negócios"

---

Hey I hope this transition happens. The current energy shortage could
still have been avoided though... Timely investment in H2 and CCS
would have guaranteed enough supply of clean fuel no matter the
primary energy source. Transition could have been smooth. Instead we
are in a street-fight.

"In the first quarter of 2022, Spain already comprised 20 percent of
the green hydrogen projects worldwide. That placed it in second place
behind only the United States, where over half the projects were
located, according to data from consulting firm Wood Mackenzie"

---

CBS: "Attorneys General in 22 states issue joint statement reaffirming
abortion protections"

---

Forbes: "George Noble started his career at Fidelity Investments in
the early 1980s working for stockpicking legend Peter Lynch, then
running the top-performing Fidelity Overseas Fund.. The broad market
downturn so far is just the beginning. 'This decline will shock,' he
says. 'Interest rates and yields are going higher. Equities are
toast.' There will be no soft landing. 'They’re not going to get
inflation down until the economy breaks,' but the Fed has no
choice. 'If they don’t raise rates, we’re on the road to Weimar.' He’s
referring of course to the hyperinflation of Weimar Germany, where by
1923 goods cost a trillion times more than five years prior"

---

For a long time Chinese (and most of the world) have been moving
forward in an auto-pilot mode on grand innovation direction. Leave it
to the Americans to try out the long-term trends, directions, you just
take the idea, implement it better. Can't argue with the cost side, it
could more profitable simply to follow. But US errs, and in past few
decades errs big. The dream machine is generating too much junk, tech
direction is relying on too many stupid people and I believe more than
a few countries started to realize the situation

---

Just because something has "electric", "electromagnetic" in its name
doesn't mean that thing is better. Gases, liquids, perform many
functions perfectly well, and they are reliable. This is true for fuel
as it is for power generation, heating, or cooling, or in this case,
launching an entire aircraft.

---

Wiki: "The Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System (EMALS) is a type of
aircraft launching system.. [developed for] the United States
Navy. The system launches carrier-based aircraft by means of a
catapult employing a linear induction motor rather than the
conventional steam piston.. a highly critical 2018 report from the
Pentagon..  emphasized that reliability of EMALS leaves much to be
desired and that the average rate of critical failures is nine times
higher than the Navy's threshold requirements"

---

Hindustan Times: "Indian Navy has questions on China’s new aircraft
carrier Fujian..  While Fujian is touted to take on the US military
power in the coming decade in the Indo-Pacific, serving Indian Navy
Admirals are posing some fundamental questions on the operability of
the Chinese carrier, which is said to be equipped with [EMALS].. As of
now, only USS Gerald Ford is equipped with [EMALS].. The challenge for
Super carrier Gerald Ford is scaling a relatively new technology to
handle the required weights and power"

[[-]](https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-navy-has-questions-on-china-s-new-aircraft-carrier-fujian-101656297940078.html)

---

Politico: "Germany gets tough on Brexit.. New German Chancellor Olaf
Scholz has Boris Johnson firmly in his sights.. German officials say
there is cross-party consensus in Germany on the need to protect the
EU single market — the destination of about 70 percent of German
exports — but acknowledged Berlin has dialled up the rhetoric in
recent weeks.. Berlin has also judged this is the appropriate time to
send a 'blunter' message that the U.K. must abandon any ambitions to
rewrite the protocol, they added. Germany also wants to dispel any
suggestion that the row is merely an issue between the U.K. and
Ireland only"

---

There is also that pile of cash the US froze; bondholders can ask US
to be paid from that stash.

CNBC: "Russia has entered its first major foreign debt default for
over a century, after a grace period on two international bond
payments lapsed on Sunday night... The Kremlin has rejected the claim
that Russia is in default..  telling a press call this morning that
Russia made the bond payments due in May but they have been blocked by
Euroclear due to Western sanctions, rendering the non-delivery of
payments 'not [Russia’s] problem.'"

---

UKR did not implement Minsk agreements, and sent bombing sorties
toward Russian seperatists with those little toy planes from
"Britain's other bitch" assuming an offensive posture.. All with the
support of US/UK. You poked the bear and now the bear is coming for
you. What were they thinking?

---

"Support Ukraine" rhetoric is also partly there to cover up previous
fuck ups of the West, especially of Britain and US. If we treat UKR
gov as good capable leaders only lacking some weapons under the attack
of a mean Russia, then their mistakes get erased, forgotten

---

AFP: "Foreign fighters who have joined Ukrainian forces battling
Russia's invasion have been shocked by the brutality of the war and
some say that disillusionment is creeping in"

---

The Guardian: "Even today, there is some dissension in the west about
what the objectives in Ukraine should be. In contrast to the leaders
of the Baltic states, Poland, and the United Kingdom, the French
president, Emmanuel Macron, and German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, are
not committed to ensuring that Russia is defeated militarily, and the
Italian prime minister, Mario Draghi, has proposed a peace framework,
with an immediate ceasefire at the top of the agenda"

[[-]](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/jun/23/the-war-in-ukraine-has-entered-a-new-and-more-difficult-phase)

---

"@DanDePetris

Politicians who are so opposed to settling the war in Ukraine should
do their due diligence and consider an even uglier contingency: Russia
gains more ground as the war proceeds, cements those gains"

---

Foreign Policy: "[Gabbard, Davis] As much as Ukraine welcomes every
piece of equipment, however, the deliveries have been a clunky mixture
of modern and antiquated, Western and Soviet. Numerous systems require
specialized training, specific maintenance systems, and ammunition of
various calibers that are often mutually exclusive to each weapon
system. All of this requires a massive and complicated logistics
system to keep the weapons supplied and functioning—one that doesn’t
currently exist in Ukraine and continues to be improvised...

Policies in Kyiv and Washington seem to ignore these battlefield
realities... While there is still time, and Kyiv still controls 80
percent of its territory, a change in U.S. policy would provide a
chance to save Ukrainian lives and prevent further territorial
losses. At minimum, the Biden administration should de-emphasize
its goals of weakening Russia and instead prioritize diplomacy,
helping Kyiv and Moscow find a negotiated end to the war"

[[-]](https://foreignpolicy.com/2022/06/27/us-ukraine-russia-war-endgame-victory-settlement-negotiation-biden-putin-zelensky/)

---

H2 Central: "A leading group of German companies along with
Australia’s Fortescue Future Industries (FFI) has released a green
hydrogen roadmap, outlining a set of recommendations for government
and industry, to meet the ambitious target of importing large amounts
of green hydrogen from Australia to Germany.

The Green Hydrogen Taskforce, created earlier this year, is a
collaborative effort between FFI, and some of the strongest energy,
industrial, and technology companies in Germany, including Covestro,
E.ON, Linde, Luthardt, SAP, Schaeffler, thyssenkrupp Nucera and
thyssenkrupp Uhde"

---

If m t / y means megaton per year that translates to 10 GW of output.
Good. And we need more. A few more at this scale.

All fossil producers need to generate this stuff.. as much as humanly
possible. Green, blue, any color.

"@H2Standard

The prospects for green hydrogen have been given a boost as a market
landgrab by oil and gas majors continues. June has seen BP and
TotalEnergies buying stakes in projects with a combined production
capacity of 2.6 m t/y"

---

Looks simple - good recipe

[[-]](https://youtu.be/P2Ns5waSDog)

---

Kenobi finale was ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐

---

CNBC: "El Salvador's $425 million bitcoin experiment isn't saving the
country's finances. The government's crypto coffers have been cut in
half, bitcoin adoption nationwide isn't really taking off, and the
country has big upcoming debt payments"

---


TDB: "And yet, even with the challenge of pandemic recovery, we are
not facing 'stagflation,' a word that ruled our economic lives 40
years ago and now is a term that I have to explain to my younger
students. Stagflation was something that once seemed impossible: high
inflation, low growth, and high unemployment all at the same
time. This happened in the 1970s, but it isn’t happening now—or at
least, it isn’t happening yet—and it’s one reason treating 2022 as if
it’s 1979 doesn’t make much sense.Let’s also admit an obvious
political reality about the expectations of the American voter: Many
of the people who are fed up with inflation in 2022 are angry mostly
because until about a year ago, they’d never actually experienced
it. Yes, it’s been a rough year, but in 1979 Americans were despairing
because high inflation had already been around for several
years. Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Carter all tussled with it. We
tried everything from wage and price controls to 'Whip inflation now'
sloganeering—as if consumers could join the fight by wearing
buttons.The same is true of interest rates. Today’s younger consumers
may be shocked that mortgages are breaking 6 percent—but again, this
is because they have become accustomed to ridiculously low rates. Even
50 years ago, the average rates were about 7 percent; they’ve been
lower than that for two decades now"

---

Focker has a friend, [e-jagoff](muskthiel.jpeg).. He likes battery
electric cars.

---

You got your answer didn't you, Focker.

You are not in the circle of trust anymore 👌

---

US libertarian right there.

NYT: "[Peter Thiel interview, 2017] It’s like, even if you appointed a
whole series of conservative Supreme Court justices, I’m not sure that
Roe v. Wade would get overturned.. I don’t know if people even care
about the Supreme Court"

[[-]](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/fashion/peter-thiel-donald-trump-silicon-valley-technology-gawker.html)

---

German libertarians supported ending the ban - because of, you know,
liberty.

NYT: "Germany Ends Ban on Abortion Advertisement.. The vote to scrap
the law came on the same day that Roe v. Wade was overturned by the
U.S. Supreme Court.

Lawmakers voted on Friday to end a Nazi-era ban on the advertisement
of abortion services, a measure that had effectively criminalized
doctors who provided information about the procedure.The law, though
ignored for years, had recently prompted several high-profile legal
cases against doctors. That, in turn, led to a sustained campaign by
abortion-rights activists for repeal of the advertising ban, which
Germany’s relatively new government had made a goal"

---

Manchin: "I trusted Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh when they
testified under oath that they also believed Roe v. Wade was settled
legal precedent and I am alarmed they chose to reject the stability
the ruling has provided for two generations of Americans."

---

And now they will say 'vote for us to bring back Roe'; the culture war
dividend never ends.

---

"@JeffreyStClair3

The leadership of the Democratic Party, which for 20 years has said
the only reason to vote for them is to protect Roe, should resign en
masse. Their failure is absolute"

---

IOW how to do incremental fixes on an incremental fix which itself
wasn't good enough to begin with.. Reminds me of battery electric
cars as a "green solution".

"Dems weigh new plan to defuse Obamacare subsidy bomb"

---

FT: "US and allies launch initiative to help Pacific Island nations"

---

RU had 10 times more artillery attacks for that day than UKR


```python
import pandas as pd
d = 20220622
df = pd.read_csv('events_latest.csv')
dfr = df[ (df.a_rus_b==1) & (df.date==d) ]
print ("ru artillery:", dfr.t_artillery_b.sum())
dfu = df[ (df.a_ukr_b==1) & (df.date==d) ]
print ("ukr artillery:", dfu.t_artillery_b.sum())
```

```text
ru artillery: 61
ukr artillery: 6
```

---

Code sifts through RU, UKR media sources, and pulls out relevant info
automagically using "high dimensional ad-hoc nonlinear statistics"
sometimes called machine learning, but these days usually mistakenly
called "AI".

---

New data source for UKR/RU war.. Seems to be updated regularly ,
and shares areas of control in a simple file!

[[-]](https://github.com/zhukovyuri/VIINA)

---

"@adam_tooze

'One of the most frustrating aspects of America’s Ukraine debate is
its degree of self-deception about global unity. The assumption is
false.' Spot on from @EdwardGLuce"

---
 
NYT: "Russian Elites Show No Sign of Broad Challenge to Putin"

---

Washington Examier: "After a month of holding out, the Ukrainian high
command ordered the remaining defenders in Severodonetsk, the
administrative capital of Luhansk, to beat a tactical retreat out of
the city and fortify their defenses in Lysychansk, the sister city to
the west of the Seversky Donets River. 'Remaining in positions smashed
to pieces over many months just for the sake of staying there does not
make sense,' Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said...

Russian forces were making slow progress in the Severodonetsk pocket
for weeks, using their advantage in artillery to pummel everything in
their path before sending ground forces into the area. Russia’s war
plan, to put it in the most unsophisticated way possible, was to
overwhelm the Ukrainian defenders with constant bombardment until they
relented. For Ukraine, the only other alternative would have been to
stick around and risk total encirclement — a strategy that would have
been indefensible, if not insane, when the Ukrainian military is
already losing perhaps 200 soldiers a day"

---
