# Week 8 

H2 View: "$127.9m boost for zero emissions vehicles in
Australia.. Unveiled.. by the Australian Renewable Energy Agency
(ARENA) on the behalf of the Australian Government, the Future Fuels
Programme will see funding dedicated to the roll-out of hydrogen fuel
cell vehicles and the supporting infrastructure"

---

H2 View: "Deutsche Telekom is trialling hydrogen technologies for the
carbon-neutral powering of its mobile sites in a mission to slash its
emissions"

---

Freaking massive

H2 View: "The Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas) has announced
that it is submitting a green hydrogen infrastructure application
to construct an electrolyzer with a capacity between 10GW and 20GW"

---

"As alternative to molten salts-based systems [used by most CSPs],
other energy storage systems are being proposed in the last years
... Limestone, which is the second most abundant material on Earth
after water, can be employed for this purpose. In the so-called
Calcium Looping (CaL) process, direct solar radiation is used to carry
out the endothermic calcination reaction releasing CO2 and CaO as
products that are stored separately. Storage conditions and time
depends on the energy demand. When energy is needed, the stored
products are brought together to carry out the exothermic carbonation
reaction which releases the stored energy"

[[PDF]](https://idus.us.es/bitstream/handle/11441/87668/preprint_CSP-CaL.pdf)

---

Li-on batteries are limited by world lithium reserves. At its max this
tech can only handle 5% of global storage need. They are doomed to
remain marginal, and eventually irrelevant.

---

Switch to a green econ cannot be accomplished on the backs on bunch of
people "putting up solar panels on their rooftops". That's good, but
not everyone lives in a setting they can do that easily. Green energy
needs to be a product, which can be transmitted easily, and stored as
needed in huge amounts.

---

With all that solar potential there is no reason China should not one
day become energy independent.

---

That sucks for Russia

"@JeremyCliffe

Wow. Scholz has just announced that NordStream 2 will not be certified"

---

"If it aint Boeing I aint going". That used to be a saying? Maybe the
saying changed a little bit recently, no?

---

"Germany will offer its population a new protein-based Covid-19
vaccine comparable to conventional flu jabs this week, in the hope of
swaying a sizeable minority that remains sceptical of the novel mRNA
technology used in the most commonly used vaccines"

---

Mango is potent.. Planning to add it to the veg patty mix. Replaced
marmite with avacado (high on the B vitamins, w fats), added spinach
for lutein (for eyesight longevity). Testing.

---

"@kachayev

Most likely you're reading my tweets because I'm an engineer, and I
talk a lot about it. But, first and foremost, I'm Ukrainian. And I
just spent an hour of my life listening to the president of another
country ranting about how my country shouldn't exist"

---

Oz had really locked it all down hadn't it.. This is good

The Guardian: "Emotional scenes at Sydney airport as families, friends
and lovers reunite after 704 days of Covid restrictions"

---

It matters bcz countries will attempt to pull discussion to bodies
they are part of, and by doing that they might be pushing some
countries out of the discussion. China might steer things to UNSC bcz
it is a permanent member there, away from G7, while Germany might do
the reverse. US, being in both, can pick and choose, select either
format just to freeze out countries that are not in one or the
other. That does not lead to a democratic environment.

UNSC permanent members are basically the victors of WWII; from
long-time ago. A more inclusive org with major teeth is needed. The
new org should also decide on a majority vote basis. If you piss
off more than half the countries, it should mean something.

"Why does membership in UNSC and G7 matter in world matters?'

---

<img width="95%" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FL4ZvylXwAUpWcm?format=png&name=small"/>

H2 View: "Renault has.. teased its concept-car of the future, equipped
with a hydrogen engine"

---

H2 View: "Yamaha to develop a five-litre V8 high-performance hydrogen
internal combustion engine for Toyota"

---

H2 View: "A brand-new heavy-duty hydrogen station is set to fuel at
least 22 fuel cell buses daily in the city of Frankfurt, Germany"

---

H2 View: "[DOE] revealed.. its innovative H2 Matchmaker Map.. to
support the growing hydrogen sector.. [H2M] is a resource helping
clean hydrogen producers, end-users, and others find opportunities to
develop networks of production, storage, and transportation
infrastructure"

---

H2 View: "Barbados will become home to [a] hydrogen power project in
the Caribbean with capacity for 128MWh of green hydrogen storage"

---

5 x 1e9 x 33.6 / (365 x 24 x 1e6) computes over 19 Gigawatts of
capacity. Huge.  Equivalent to 19 nuclear plants.

Arab News: "India plans to produce 5 million tonnes of green hydrogen
a year by 2030 as it seeks to exploit low renewable energy costs to
become a global exporter of the sustainable fuel... The target was
announced by India’s power ministry on Thursday as it revealed the
first part of its national hydrogen policy"

---

No wonder Blackrock is world's largest asset manager; LF has a good
nose for promising opportunities. Unlike some 'genius' investors who
merely rode the wave of FOMO, faux-unicorns made possible thanks to
low rates, this guy pinpointed a fundamental, game changing tech
early. That is skill.

---

H2 View: "Hydrogen refuelling network to be developed in the
US by Daimler Truck, NextEra and BlackRock"

---

CNBC: "[Oct 2021] Larry Fink, the CEO and Chairman of Blackrock, sees
addressing climate change as a massive potential for new
businesses. 'It is my belief that the next 1,000 unicorns — companies
that have a market valuation over a billion dollars — won't be a
search engine, won't be a media company, they'll be businesses
developing green hydrogen, green agriculture, green steel and green
cement,' Fink said Monday at the Middle East Green Initiative Summit
in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia"

---

Look at that [bad boy](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FMA3m-DWUAMDe-D?format=jpg&name=small).
Arrrr.. The wind cannot knock this down!

---

Electric cables are an inefficient way of transporting energy. Strong
winds can damage wires easily. A clean gas pipeline is very close or
under the ground, and a robust construction, would not be harmed by
adverse weather easily. Also transmits power 10 times faster at 8th
the cost.

"Storm Eunice batters Europe..  More than 100,000 people were hit by
power cuts as lines were torn down and ancient trees keeled over"

[[-]](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/18/storm-eunice-batters-europe-eight)

---

Lota mucking flame 

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FL-TzH_XEAEg09O?format=jpg&name=small)

---

JFK "Eternal Flame"? They have this bloody gas powered thing burning
since the 60s, non-stop. Need to put that shit out. The mucker was
undeserving for that gesture for one, and it is emitting GHG.

---

Pollution (air, sea -oil spills-) is enough to entice a switch to
green fuels. Green fuel pipeline instead of oil pipeline would have
saved California's beaches just the previous year.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Compared to BEVs, whose batteries can drain faster in cold weather, hydrogen-powered vehicles are better suited for wintry climates like Zhangjiakou, where temperatures during competition have plummeted to -17° C. <a href="https://t.co/EF6LlYZFj7">https://t.co/EF6LlYZFj7</a> via <a href="https://twitter.com/business?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@business</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/copolitics?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#copolitics</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/coleg?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#coleg</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/GovofCO?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@GovofCO</a></p>&mdash; Reuben Espinosa (@reubenesp) <a href="https://twitter.com/reubenesp/status/1494615837512142848?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 18, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@HTAutotweets

Hydrogen-powered vehicles are better suited for wintry climates and
refilling them takes only minutes, much faster than charging electric
vehicles"

---

"@fromYanK

Energy transition reached a new level as environmentally friendly
hydrogen was used to power the torch that lit the cauldron at the
Beijing Winter Olympics opening ceremony. It was the first time in
Olympic history that a zero-emissions torch had been used for such an
occasion"

---

"@official_cnpc

\#CNPC Transportation Company sends 14 kg of hydrogen to the Bird's
Nest (aka National Stadium) every two or three days to supply the fuel
for the torch"

---

"@SinopecNews

Environmental-friendly hydrogen produced by Sinopec was used to power
the torch that lit the snowflake-shaped cauldron at the
\#OpeningCeremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics"

---

"[Dec 8] PetroChina's Huabei Petrochemical ships first hydrogen fuel cargo"

---

Need to transition to discussing climate solutions rather than
expanding 'awareness' on climate change. Some solutions can garner
broad support, and have good economics behind them. The new bidness
possibilities can overcome (!) a lot of doubts.

---

CNBC: "61% of people working from home are doing so because they want
to, even though their office is open.. Teleworkers say they’re
choosing to stay home for better work-life balance, productivity or
because they’ve relocated away from the office"

---

CNBC: "Fed approves rules banning its officials from trading stocks,
bonds and also cryptocurrencies"

---

Another map - deepest part of Medi is right under Italy's boot

[[-]](https://cdn.britannica.com/04/6004-050-EBC240F4/depth-contours-Atlantic-Ocean-submarine-features.jpg)

---

I guess there was a time you could walk from Paris France to Paris Texas.

---

Looks like someone pulled two sides of a single block and it broke,
two big pieces and a third middle part remained. That's what that
mountain looks like.

---

There is a legit underwater mountain in the middle of the Atlatic

---

Sea Depth Map (from the [Economist](https://www.economist.com/1843/2014/12/27/the-first-map-of-the-depths))

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FL7uQFqXwAMW6Kg?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

6000 meters pretty much covers the Mediterrenian (max depth < 6km),
most of the world's oceans too except a few places. Africa energy
pipelines will fall under that monitoring I bet.

---

Seabed Warfare? Dam

"France Unveils New Seabed Warfare Strategy.. The strategy aims at
broadening the capabilities of anticipation and action of the French
Navy (Marine Nationale) up to 6,000 m depth...

[S]trategic interests in this space [are]: Guarantee the freedom of
action of the French Armed Forces in the face of submarine
surveillance and interdiction strategies potentially deployed from the
seabed.. Protect France’s underwater infrastructures such as
communication and energy transport cables (electricity, gas, oil)"

[[-]](https://www.navalnews.com/naval-news/2022/02/france-unveils-new-seabed-warfare-strategy/)

---

Pacemaker.. not bad.

---

Suicided?

TDB: "Jean-Luc Brunel, a French modeling agent accused of procuring
underage women for Jeffrey Epstein, was found hanged in his Paris jail
cell—in a shocking replay of how Epstein himself died"

---

😂

"@Econ_Marshall

where to begin

'@Noahpinion Historians are far more powerful than economists, and
their theories gain wide acceptance with far less solid evidence to
back them up.'"

---

*Severence* is some kooky shit.. Saw the first ep, 'tis ok.

---

Southerners are 'mericans, aren't they?

---

Sheeee-iiiit is Southern drawl, not African

---
