# Week 16 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">All Californians deserve access to options that will drive a more sustainable future.  <br>  <br>That’s why we’ve proposed to develop Angeles Link: a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/green?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#green</a> hydrogen pipeline system designed to significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions.<br><br>More <a href="https://twitter.com/SeeNewsRenew?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@SeeNewsRenew</a>: <a href="https://t.co/0Q4i2x80bU">https://t.co/0Q4i2x80bU</a> <a href="https://t.co/YyUU4PREqC">pic.twitter.com/YyUU4PREqC</a></p>&mdash; SoCalGas (@socalgas) <a href="https://twitter.com/socalgas/status/1511434086211981315?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 5, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Forbes: "Angeles Link - by California utility SoCalGas, [will produce]
hydrogen from electricity generated by wind and solar power.. [Its]
infrastructure will include hundreds of miles of new pipelines
necessary to move the hydrogen to market... Once completed, the
company says the project will “allow four natural gas plants and 20
percent of big diesel container trucks to convert to zero-emission
hydrogen fuel – with the potential to reduce diesel fuel use by as
much as 3 million gallons per day in California.”  SoCalGas also
estimates that its new green hydrogen pipeline system will deliver the
clean energy equivalent of almost 25 percent of the natural gas
delivered by SoCalGas today"

---

H2 View: 'The Brazil-Germany Alliance for Green Hydrogen has launched
a new Innovation Programme aiming to enhance the hydrogen value chain
within Brazil and strengthen cooperation between the countries"

---

H2 View: "Two hydrogen hubs within Western Australia have received $140m
bipartisan federal support in order to turn the region into a booming
capital for hydrogen technologies"

---

H2 View: "German green energy hub central to overcoming European
energy crisis..[TES Chief Commercial Officer Otto Waterlander:
Production] will increase to 250 TWh per year and more than five
million metric tons of hydrogen in a final stage. The green hydrogen
will be produced using exclusively renewable sources, mainly solar and
in several cases, wind and/or hydroelectricity.'"

---

H2 View: "Morocco seeks to establish a gas infrastructure worthy of
the 21st century, said minister.. Leïla Benali... Morocco is also
called upon to become a leader in competitive hydrogen, said
Ms. Benali, stressing the importance of the gas infrastructure of the
21st century “which can allow us to mix hydrogen like the countries
which mix in existing gas pipelines 30 pc of hydrogen.”

---

Houston Chronicle: "Texas companies embrace hydrogen to retain energy
crown.. The world is determined to move away from burning fossil
fuels, but Houston could remain the energy capital of the world thanks
to a coalition of Texas businesses and nonprofits betting on hydrogen
helping the city retain the crown. The gamble is sound. Climate
activists agree that hydrogen molecules in either gas or liquid form
will help replace oil, natural gas and coal"

---

Hey it's not like the world needs the extra capacity

Al Jazeera: "[Libya's] National Oil Corporation warns of a ‘painful
wave of closures’ after forces in the east expanded their blockade of
the sector"

---

Some versions of HS missiles dont even have explosives - just sheer
kinetic energy; a mass of metal crushing into something else at Mach 5
speed or greater. Simple, fundamental works; mass, speed, pressure,
heat.

---

Hypersonics can be a big problem for ships.. I dont think a swarm of
HS can be stopped, they could potentially take out an aircraft carrier
if attacker knows where they are. With high-res satellite imaging
pinpointing a fleet could be possible too. Then during a war
satellites become a target. Enter Space Force. It goes on and on.

---

I hear there are some engine issues though..

---

J-20 is CH next-gen combat fighter plane. I dont think it can take on
F-35s, esp F-22s one-on-one, but I believe they designed this
thing with "a certain mission" in mind. It has long range.

---

"J-20 fighters start patrols in East, South China Seas"

---

"South Korea, Japan, China and Australia have all boosted their naval
power as competition for resources heats up."

---

Police Interrogations: Last Week Tonight with John Oliver 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/obCNQ0xksZ4?t=43)

---

Mapping software Leaflet is great, but it needs backend
connectivity. That spiffy dynamic zoom-in feature doesn't work by
magic..  It gets additional data as needed from a server to make that
happen.

---

IoT is a foolish new "industry", just like 3D TVs, battery-electric
cars, or Pokémon Go. Less connectivity is needed not more.  Aim for
offline, standalone, intermittent.

---

"@doctorow

IoT service shuts down its cloud hosts without warning; execs scrub
their Linkedin profiles of the company's name; parent company deletes
press-release trumpeting the acquisition, and every single device
they've ever sold is bricked"

---

😂 😂 😂 

Arstechnica: "[The smart home company] Insteon looks dead—just like
its users’ smart homes"

---

FT: "Chinese immigration consultants say inquiries from wealthy
individuals trying to leave the country have surged following the
lockdown of Shanghai"

---

NYT: "Yemen’s Houthis Went From Ragtag Militia to Force Threatening
Gulf Powers.. Iran’s cultivation of the Houthis over the years of war
in Yemen has armed them with missiles and drones, endangering.. Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates"

---

Now I got to the parts where even Strang is hand-waving. Danger zone

---

That's still about same as the Texas landmass. Not bad.

"About 90% [of Oz] is classed as uninhabitable [leaving 768,685 km2 of
habitable land]".

---

Oz Economist Saul Eslake \#ABC: "Schemes that allow people to pay more
for housing than they otherwise would, will result in more expensive
housing, rather than more people owning housing. I dont think it's any
coincidence home ownership rate has been declining ever since the
first census after the first homeowner's grant was introduced by the
Menzies government in 1964.. The reality that all politicians are
aware of is that there is at least 11 million voters who own at least
one property, within that there are at least two million who own two
or more, and of course those voters want governments to keep doing
things that push house prices up... [the latest gov proposal] is yet
another example of that kind of scheme"
 
---

Sky News: "Government expands home buyer’s scheme for thousands of Australians"

---

SoCalGas: Introducing Angeles Link

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tuTnalOdApc?start=36" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

H2 Fuel News: "The new [Siemens] production lines for the hydrogen
electrolyzers are already being constructed. They are being set up on
2,000 square meters (over 6,500 square feet) of the Berlin location
and will come with an estimated cost of â‚¬30 million ($33
million). Production will begin in 2023 at the Huittenstrasse where
there is already an existing production hall to be converted"

---

Mi chiamano il fottuto dottore

---

È molto buono mi piace

"Il 99% della rete di Snam è già ‘hydrogen ready’"

[[-]](https://hydronews.it/il-99-della-rete-di-snam-e-gia-hydrogen-ready/)

---

If that ship carried H2 (as liquid, or LOHC) nothing wld happen. No
pollution.

Al Jazeera: "Ship carrying 750 tonnes of diesel fuel sinks off Tunisia’s
coast"

---

Energy is costly business; the typical 200MW natural gas plant costs a
cool 100 mil $ according to CAPEX.

[[-]](../../2022/02/costs-lcoe.md)

---

FT: "Planting trees in Scotland will not fix climate change"

---

FT: "When so many are struggling [in UK], why is it that an estimated
£15bn worth of means-tested benefits go unclaimed in the UK every
year?"

[[-]](https://www.ft.com/content/ececde8c-76dc-456d-8b27-6f408ae6f064)

---

\#Twitter

"@SloopJD

Liberals last week: "Everyone needs to go out and buy a \#Tesla."

Liberals this week: crickets"

---

Woke has history.. Post 9/11 there was Jack Bauer, James Blonde,
Bourne beating up on 'terrorists'.. After Iraq mishaps, financial
crisis, there was partial return to normality, some backlash, minor
Woke - not too bad. It was after Trump ppl really went batshit, 'oh no
it aint over' kind of realization set it, then we had mega backlash,
mega Woke, overcuck. Recent commentary here have mostly been on this
last phase.

---

Not refering to JC, no

---

Orcheis malakas

---

Lota commentary on one word: *tetelestai*

[[-]](https://www.christianity.com/jesus/death-and-resurrection/last-words/what-was-finished.html)

---

The claim is BW III will be based on a new commodity based Asian
currency - replacing the dollar-based system.

Pozsar: "If we are right, and if this is a “crisis of commodities” – a
2008 of sorts thematically, if not in terms of size or severity – who
will provide the backstop?  We see but only one entity: the PBoC!
Western central banks cannot close the gaping “commodities basis”
because their respective sovereigns are the ones driving the
sanctions. They will have to deal with the inflationary impacts of the
“commodities basis” and try to cool them with rate hikes, but they
will not be able to provide the outside spreads and won’t be able to
provide balance sheet to close “Russia-non-Russia” spreads.  Commodity
traders won’t be able to either. Remember that Glencore rose from the
ashes of Marc Rich + Co, and with Switzerland along with the
sanctions, Swiss-based commodity traders will think twice about
arbitraging the spreads.

But the PBoC [Chinese Central Bank] can…

.. as it banks for a sovereign who can dance to its own tune. To make
things more complicated, China is probably thinking deep and hard
about the value of the inside money claims in its FX reserves, now
that the G7 seized Russia’s...

The Fed and other central banks will be able to provide liquidity
backstops.. .. but those will be Band-Aid solutions. The true problem
here is not liquidity per se. Liquidity is just a manifestation of a
larger problem, which is the Russian-non-Russian commodities basis,
which only China will be able to close"

---

Pozsar: "[I]f you believe that the West can craft sanctions that
maximize pain for Russia while minimizing financial stability risks
and price stability risks in the West, you could also believe in
unicorns"

---

By CC=1 he means individual commodity prices are going up and down in
sync.

Pozsar: "Commodity correlations are also at 1, which, to stress, is
never a good thing. But that’s precisely what happens when the West
sanctions the single-largest commodity producer of the world, which
sells virtually everything..

The commodities market is much more financialized and
leveraged today than it was during the 1973 OPEC supply crisis, and
today’s Russian supply crisis is much bigger, much more broad-based,
and much more correlated. It’s scarier"

---

Did Russkies leave that big fat pile of reserve dough out there so they
could be seized, giving them excuse to demand rouble for gas? Makes
u wonder.

Pozsar: "Bretton Woods II was built on inside money [as in
petrodollar], and its foundations crumbled a week ago when the G7
seized Russia’s FX reserves"

---

The Finance Twitter, \#fintwit, is abuzz with that Zoltan Pozsar
article, talking about Bretton Woods III.

[PDF](https://plus2.credit-suisse.com/content/dam/credit-suisse-research/SearchPDF?DocumentID=1191091&DocumentType=NR%20Publication&documentClick=true&AuthRequired=true&tagFormat=PDF)

---

Flournoy is in there too - war-mongering freak bitch. They destroyed Libya.

The Lever: "The Defense Industry’s Ukraine Pundits.. To explain the
crisis, corporate news networks are leaning on hawkish ex-military
officials — without disclosing their current defense industry ties"

[[-]](https://www.levernews.com/the-defense-industrys-ukraine-pundits/)

---

[Code](tweets/2022/util.py) to fetch UKR-RU war map from ISW for a
given date,

```python
import util, datetime
util.fetch_ukr_war_map(datetime.datetime(2022,4,17))
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FQnXq6OWQAM9F_A?format=jpg&name=small)

---

H2 View: "Australian hydrogen vehicle manufacturer H2X is looking to
further advance its innovations, having entered into a partnership
with KTM Technologies to enhance both the vehicle chassis and
construction programmes"

---

H2 View: "Chilean green hydrogen project progresses.. Total Eren has
made great progress on its large-scale hydrogen project, that will see
10GW of installed wind capacity and 8GW of electrolysis capacity"

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8Jr0PCU4m7M?start=238&end=468" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

NATO-style.. Then what was the point of all that 'giving up NATO
membership' talk? This sounds like a non-concession concession. No
wonder UKR-RU discussions are dead.

Reuters: "[Mar 29] Ukraine offers neutrality in exchange for
NATO-style security guarantees at Russia talks"

---

WION: "More than 4.7 million Ukrainians have fled their country in the
50 days since Russia invaded, the United Nations said Thursday"

---

If a 1945 newspaper headline was 'Desperate Harry Truman may use
nuclear weapons', what would the world's advice to the Japanese be?

WION: "Desperate Putin may use nuclear weapons, says CIA Chief"

---

"Rouble trouble". Then there will be no rouble 'rubble'

"Rouble Trouble: Why the New Russian Gas Payment Scheme Matters"

[[-]](https://www.algebris.com/market-views/rouble-trouble-why-the-new-russian-gas-payment-scheme-matters/)

---
