# Week 47 

"@CoinMarketCap

\#cryptonews: New York governor signs law that limits #crypto mining üëÄ"

---

\#FTX

"@ercwl

Man still thinks his exchange was a hedge fund.. You can‚Äôt denominate
crypto assets into a dollar calculation as a custodian. That‚Äôs pure
fraud. GTFO"

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

German gas company VNG AG and French renewable independent power
producer (IPP) Total Eren have joined forces to import and sell green
ammonia to Europe"

---

Korea JoonAng Daily: "[H2] economy to get a big [SK] government
boost.. [gov] said it is taking more aggressive steps than the Moon
Jae-in administration in terms of the hydrogen economy in its support
of clean hydrogen production and distribution.. Under the plan, Korea
will have 600 hydrogen companies by 2030 and will be top ranked in
categories related to hydrogen, including water electrolysis and fuel
cells"

---

Thunderball - I C Colors \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/s7tklHTrl9s)

---

Chip: "Many homeowners with a PV system want a completely
self-sufficient power supply. But conventional battery storage is not
designed to store the self-generated electricity for months. [The
German start-up Home Power Solutions] has developed a system that can
store excess electricity in the form of hydrogen for months"

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

'Linde starts green hydrogen production in Greece'"

---

This Cup is full of surprises...

The Telegraph: "Germany vs Japan result: Another shock World Cup win
as Hajime Moriyasu's team secure 2-1 victory"

---

Aha here is Messi

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FiO6zAYX0AAVYfv?format=jpg&name=small)

---

That is awesome. What happened to Messi?

I hope SA goes further... Insallah.

"Saudi Arabia produced one of the biggest upsets in World Cup history
to beat Argentina 2-1"

---

"@nanoseagull

Everyone thinks their exchange is ok until they read the words
'Withdrawals paused'"

---

That. Is. Funny ü§£ \#FTX

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FgNixf0WAAAl36E?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Multi-Vehicle Pileup \#Montreal

[[-]](https://youtu.be/rtF_UiwPRYo)

---

Slate: "The Clinton-Era Adoption Law That Still Devastates Black Families
Today.. Promoted as a way to rescue children‚Äîespecially Black
children‚Äîlanguishing in America‚Äôs overloaded foster system, ASFA has
had the opposite impact. By speeding up termination of parents‚Äô
rights, it has dramatically increased the chances that Black families,
which are disproportionately separated by state child welfare
authorities, will be permanently torn apart"

---

"@decolonialatlas@kolektiva.social

A 20-year-long Indigenous-led movement to undam the Klamath River just
won the largest river restoration project in history! FERC unanimously
voted Thursday to remove the four lower Klamath dams starting next
year! The salmon are coming home for the first time since 1918"

---

"@FlintDibble@archaeo.social

From Ignatius Donnelly to Graham Hancock, pseudoarchaeologists claim
an 'advanced Ice Age civilization' spread agriculture.. But
archaeologists actually know a lot about the spread of agriculture!
Check out this YouTube video on the First Farmers in the Aegean [see
vid]"

[[-]](https://mastodon.ie/@FlintDibble@archaeo.social/109382489737102447)

---

I hear that on the polls but some say Trump people are not talking to
the pollsters, or giving false data when they do, for fear of being
labeled, since Jan 6.

---

Slate: "The Bad Bet Tech Companies Made That Got Them Into This
Mess.. companies understood their lockdown-augmented growth curves
might not last forever, but they planned as if they would. Because
while being wrong would mean cutting staff and missing earnings
expectations, not attacking the opportunity would mean losing a market
if COVID-inspired behavior *did* persist. So they took the risk"

---

@AP_ArchPublic .. Genesis creditors are preparing for an ‚Äòimminent‚Äô
bankruptcy filing"

---

\#Land \#Vote

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FhcdAdrXEAI_lQU?format=jpg&name=small)

---

"@jmtixhon@mastodon.world

Ballard Fuel Cells Installed On World‚Äôs First Liquid Hydrogen-Powered Ferry"

---

If Iger decides to fix cuck, he would have the political capital to do
it. Not likely based on past perf, but just saying..

---

DIS CEO Chepak is out. He tried to change some stuff but he didn't
have enough political capital.. Add to that recent losses, he was
done. Much of the Woke junk started during (returning CEO) Iger's time
anyway, but maybe he was clear on where to go cuck and how much, and
was steady about it. News says he will chose a successor, if he choses
well, he will leave on a high note next time.

---

PV Magazine: "The German government has decided to collaborate with
the private sector on the construction of an import terminal for green
ammonia in Hamburg. From 2026, the terminal will import green ammonia
from Saudi Arabia. Air Products will produce the ammonia and
distribute it to end users in Germany, mostly for conversion into
hydrogen. '[This] is a strong signal for the entire hydrogen market in
Germany and Europe,' said Robert Habeck, the federal minister of
economics and climate protection"

---

Other sci branches have improved, have to add that, many became
mathematical, numerical.

---

Burn

Kelvin: "In science there is only physics; all the rest is stamp collecting"

---

Now, IMO the "beauty argument" pushed in sci circles must have been
there to offset the "shut up and compute" crowd. We could argue the
beauty argument was overdone as well, essentially they simply called
for an economy in the formulation where if two explanations were
equally correct choosing the simpler one... but the excess must have
been there to balance the opposite. 

---

The creation of QED also marks the shift of sci center from Europe to
US, and it so happens that the culture code of technology in US is IT
WORKS meaning doesnt matter how something is made, if it works, it's
fine. Not to be too discriminating here but I think the Europeans are
a little more into architecting, economy in their base frameworks.

---

Looking at the history of QED, it's understandable where the 'shut up
and compute' idiom came from - I dont think this chestnut was
specifically QM related. It has more to do with QED. Bcz remember what
is QED?  A bizarrely convoluted process that formulizes something (the
so-called Feynman diagrams were the necessary simplifying tool for the
unnecessarily complex procedure) but "it worked" so at that point you
had to "shut up and compute".

[[-]](../../2022/10/qed.html)

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

Stadler has announced that it has signed a [MOU] with Amtrak
California for the first four hydrogen train orders, which will be
followed by as many as 29 more"

---

"@Ric@awscommunity.social

Once again, I'm blown away by how much I can do on this
Chromebook. This time I have a fully working @FreeCAD install running"

---

These old Meloni videos.. They keep circulating them and they come
across as if they were made today.. There is one on La7 from 2019,
another from that Atreju18 thing.. Afaik one was triggered bcz Macron
bashed her first. Good Medi drama.

---

H2 Central: "Canadian Pacific Hydrogen Powered Locomotive Makes First
Revenue Run"

---

Which came first: CFD for Aero or Finite Elements for Structures?
According to book by Tenek and Argyris FEM stress analysis on airplane
wings was first. The CFD stuff arrived later. And some could claim
wind tunnels are still preferable for FD.

---

Two countries on the same island, one is doing well the other
doesn't.. And now there is a border wall between them. Unbelivable..

Bloomberg: "A 101-Mile Wall Goes Up to Block Haitians Pouring Over
Border.. Haitians fleeing [to East].. will soon be met with a
13-foot-tall border wall meant to keep them out of the neighboring
Dominican Republic"

---

"@PavelASamsonov@mastodon.social

SHITPOSTING

is an anagram of

TOP INSIGHTS"

---

"@opensciencedaily@mastodon.online

The Hydrogen Stream: Germany to import green ammonia from Saudi Arabia
from 2026"

---

"@AP_ArchPublic

BREAKING: Absolutely nobody is biting on the $1B raise for DCG and
Genesis. Closed doors and lots of ‚Äúdon‚Äôt even send us the deck‚Äù.

Big time ripple effects coming next week"

---

National Grid: "We are proud to be a part of the consortium announced
by NY Governor Hochul to develop a regional clean energy hydrogen hub
in the Northeast"

[[-]](https://www.nationalgrid.com/us/hydrogen-hub)

---

Airbus is busy working on clean fuel based flight

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Fk7Ofw3keTI?t=58)

---

H2 Central: "First Hydrogen Powered Transit Bus in LA County Hits
Streets in December, Starting New Trend"

---

Eugen Rochko - Kraut mfker. 

---

This is the founder

"@Gargron@mastodon.social

I think it's glorious that there's now a Mastodon server operated by
people who used to work for Twitter (macaw.social). I could have never
imagined it when I started in 2016"

---

Anyone can start MD server, and join a larger "federation" of servers.

---

Truth Social wanted to commercialize open-source Mastodon...  Why
bother? They could simply start a new server using the existing code,
for conservatives, MAGA or just for Trump and publish on it. People
are starting new nodes left and right these days anyway.

---

DJT helped the H2 transition let's not forget; eg the 2020 H2@Scale program.

---

H2 Central: "Samsung Heavy Industries (SHI), a shipbuilding company
from South Korea, has announced its development of a liquid hydrogen
fuel cell system¬†for ship propulsion"

---

TASS: "Hungary loses ‚Ç¨10 bln due to EU sanctions against Russia, says
Prime Minister"

---

They couldn't kill Putin through headlines for 20 years; Lavrov is next?

---

DW: "Russia denies Lavrov was taken to hospital at G20 summit"

---

The Independent: "Russia's top diplomat Sergei Lavrov was taken to
hospital due to a heart condition following his arrival for the G20
summit in Bali"

---

Al Monitor: "As Iran's crackdown on protests enters violent new phase,
casualties surge"

---

This so-called neuroticism, to the extent it exists, is not there
because said people are different - it occurs due to peer pressure
from relatives to act differently when they aren't

---

They use that word for *Seinfeld*.. but same comment could be made
about *Friends* - it was about bunch of neurotic *New Yorkers*.

---

The Independent: "10m without power in Ukraine as Russia launches new
airstrikes on homes and power facilities"

---

Critics like Woke-Cuck but the audience doesn't

---

üòÇ üòÇ üòÇ 

```python
u.rottentomatoes("Captain Marvel")
```

```text
Out[1]: {'tomatometer score': 79, 'audience score': 45}
```

```python
u.rottentomatoes("Star Wars The Last Jedi")
```

```text
Out[1]: {'tomatometer score': 91, 'audience score': 42}
```

---

People do not need expertise to enjoy a movie.. The comments I make on
good governance vs "people power" does not apply here.

---

That is about 400 mil in today's dollars.. with better marketing it
would have done even better today.

```python
u.boxofficemojo("Constantine")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Domestic Opening': '$29,769,098',
 'Domestic': '$75,976,178',
 'International': '$154,908,550',
 'Worldwide Total': '$230,884,728',
 'Release Date': 'February 8, 2005'}
```

---

Hah. The audience liked it critics hated it

```python
u.rottentomatoes("Constantine")
```

```text
Out[1]: {'tomatometer score': 46, 'audience score': 72}
```

---

*Constantine* was a good movie..

---

H2 Central: "[Saudi] Aramco and [Indonesia's] Pertamina Explore
Hydrogen and Ammonia Value Chain at B20"

---

TASS: "Indonesia may fully join BRICS, says envoy to Moscow"

---

"Plans for a massive 125km [UK] pipeline which would run through
Warrington and Runcorn have reached another milestone following a
statutory consultation"

[[-]](https://www.warringtonguardian.co.uk/news/23119647.huge-125km-hydrogen-pipeline-project-clears-latest-hurdle/)

---

