# Week 40 

OpIndia: "While India is taking the side of Armenia in the ongoing
conflict, Azerbaijan is supported by [TR, ISR]. Armenia is generally
supported by Russia but due to Russia’s preoccupation in Ukraine, they
are getting only limited assistance. In such a scenario, the defence
deal with India can prove crucial for Armenia"

---

WION: "India to export Pinaka rocket launchers, ammunition to Armenia
in $250m deal"

---

Al Monitor: "OPEC+ tipped to make big cut in oil output"

---

It's bizarre. But if they burn the shit might as well make use of
it. CCUS would be nice.

ISS: "Gas flaring is the burning of unwanted natural gas in oil
wells. Globally, the practice has persisted since oil production
started over 160 years ago. Nigeria is a leading offender, despite gas
flaring being illegal since 2005. The toxic fumes cause many
environmental and health problems"

---

Do they *have* to flare?

"Nigeria has said its plan to commercialise gas burned [flaring] from
its oilfields"

---

Countries bring up WWII reperations whenever DE does something they
don't like... Are the Germans about to do something the Poles will not
like? Something on Russia?

Al Jazeera: "Poland demands nearly $1.3 trillion in WWII damages from
Germany"

---

H2 Fuel News: "EasyJet pours 'multi-million' dollar investment into
hydrogen planes.. The European airline is betting on Rolls Royce H2
jet engine development to meet its 2050 targets"

---

Could EPC serve as a backdoor Bremain (or Breturn) for Brits? For
candidate countries it could be a half-way house EU.. France always
wants to do something on its own.. what happened to the Mediterrenian
Union? But EPC could be a good thing..

Reuters: "UK Prime Minister Liz Truss's decision to join the inaugural
summit of [France's European Political Community] this week has given
a boost to the initiative.. A key aim for Macron is to embrace EU
candidate countries that are losing patience waiting for membership of
the bloc..  'One of the points is to be able to tell Kosovo and
Albania we can do things with them, and they don't have to rely only
on Russia and China for investment,' a French official said"

---

"@Pontifex

After seven months of hostilities in \#Ukraine, let us use all
diplomatic means, even those that have not been used so far, to bring
an end to this terrible tragedy. War is an error and a horror!
\#Russia \#Peace"

---

"@culturaltutor

Do you ever feel that some cities are just more alive than others?
It's probably because they're 'mixed-use'. An area of a city (or town)
is mixed-use when you've got residential, commercial, and cultural
buildings all together"

---

H2 View: 'Elogen electrolyser gigafactory to receive up to €86m French subsidy'

---

H2 View: "Petronas and Japan Bank explore hydrogen, ammonia and CCUS opportunities"

---

The market must have been spooked by econ possibly heating up due to
lower taxes causing more inflation (risk for bondholders). Keeping
things calm, talking about balanced budgets (not that it directly
effects inflation) could also be conservative.. Sunak was actually
taking that line during the leadership race, but could not sell it.
As long Tories follow the "right" way not some centrist cuck way, it's
fine.

Reuters: "Truss forced into U-turn on tax after week of market
turmoil.. reversing a cut to the highest rate of income tax"

---

Conflicting reports. Will revisit map.

TASS: "Ukrainian troops attempted to break through Kherson Region
defenses from three directions but their attempts.. were thwarted"

---

Some advances on UA side.. Lyman is retaken (at what cost?), an
advance in Kherson even (pt \#3, old frontline is gray). Losing \#1
will be a huge problem and that is likely. For Ukraine it's too early
to celebrate, RU just announced its reinforcements. 

```python
# lyman, bakhmut, ukrainka
geo = [[48.5852939679, 37.996352954],[48.96282484, 37.8282576],[47.31878, 33.7634814]]
u.sm_plot_ukr2('ukrdata/alt1-1002.csv', 'ukrdata/alt1-0913.csv',geo)
```

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FeIzDCYXkAYGDb2?format=png&name=small"/>

---

The Independent: "Brazil election: Jair Bolsonaro trails left-wing
former president Lula in first round.. Lula and Bolsonaro will head to
a run-off on 30 October"

---

TASS: "NATO Secretary Jens Stoltenberg once again avoided giving an
unambiguous answer if the accelerated admission procedure for Ukraine
is possible and if the alliance is ready to accept Ukraine as its
member"

---

Math can deal with infinities but particles aren't infinite. There's
just a lot of them. Dealing with infinitesimals help with certain
stuff but they are by no means the true reflection of the underlying
mechanics.  It's all an approximation in the end. God does not need
math.

"Math and physics work bcz both are based on the many small particles"

---

"@quant_phys

Everything in the future is a wave, everything in the past is a particle.

 — Lawrence Bragg"

---

The nepotism charge is warranted; the familial relation puts you
further ahead among advisers, they're supposed to be equals but the
relative becomes more equal among equals. Not useful IMO.

---

BTW Bannon says Kush was in the pro-China camp, along with Cohn,
Tillerson, Buttafuoco

---

Rubin, Summers got burned 

"During the 1992 presidential campaign, Democratic candidate Bill
Clinton had talked tough on China—at one point accusing George
H. W. Bush, then president, of cozying up to 'the butchers of
Beijing.' In his confirmation hearings Warren Christopher, Clinton’s
choice for secretary of state, served notice that he would take a
tough line with China. So, in a move that the Chinese later dubbed
'the Clinton coup,' China’s top diplomats developed warm relations
with two of Clinton’s top economic advisers, Robert Rubin and Larry
Summers, who were more sympathetic to China, and worked through them
to persuade Clinton to dial back his antagonism. The Chinese had used
the same tactic during the Bush and Obama administrations, and they
had largely succeeded" \#Kush

---

Environment issues aren't just theoretical for many countries 

"When we arrived in Beijing [2017 visit], the city glistened in the
reflection of the pure blue sky. At the command of the Chinese
Communist Party, the coal-burning power plants and factories had been
shut down for the three weeks leading up to our visit to allow the
smog and soot to dissipate" \#Kush

---

The book should've been titled "Finally Taking My Revenge Against Bannon"

---

Kush wrote a book? U wrote a book Kuusshhhhhhh?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Good luck to my friend and comrade <a href="https://twitter.com/LulaOficial?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@LulaOficial</a> for tonight’s election in Brasil.<br><br>Your campaign breathes fresh hope into the global struggle for democracy, equality and humanity.<br><br>A victory for Lula will be a victory for us all. Viva Brasil! Viva Lula! <a href="https://t.co/8s4Vod35Ed">pic.twitter.com/8s4Vod35Ed</a></p>&mdash; Jeremy Corbyn (@jeremycorbyn) <a href="https://twitter.com/jeremycorbyn/status/1576640091706953728?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 2, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 Fuel News: "Is hydrogen fuel the future of California trains? Upon
the announcement of an order of up to 29 H2-powered trainsets, many
wonder if the future is here... The intention is to use the trainsets
to replace the existing state-funded Amtrac California diesel-powered
locomotives that operate push-pull sets... They will be manufactured
in Utah at Stadler’s Salt Lake City factory. The hydrogen fuel cells
will be supplied by Canadian company Ballard. The H2-powered trains
will have a 497-mile operating range"

---

Trees are either on public parks or private property - there'd be laws
protecting both.. Imagine ppl being jailed bcz they need heating,
triggering unrest.. Can communism arrive bcz of people trying to get
firewood?

---

"Rangers fear Swiss forests could be targeted for firewood amid energy
crisis"

---

Foraging for heating.. Wow

"Poland encourages people to collect firewood in forests amid soaring energy costs"

---

An ethnic minority becoming victim in a country "the Anglos" do not
like.. First IRN now AFG.. Is there a pattern here?

"Suicide Blast at Kabul School Kills 19.. Male and female students were
among the victims of the attack in a minority Hazara Shiite area of
the city"

---

*Dead for a Dollar* - average Western but okay.. Want to see a duel
between W. Dafoe and Ch Waltz? Then this is your movie.

---

\#Israel \#Apartheid 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/3a7d4Qa8M6I?t=390)

---

"Jewish Journalist Fired by The Hill After Defending Rep. Tlaib’s
‘Apartheid Israel’ Claim'

---

Grim: "Host Katie Halper recorded a segment defending Tlaib’s accurate
portrayal of Israel’s government, but Hill TV’s owners refused to run
it."

[[-]](https://theintercept.com/2022/09/29/hill-tv-israel-apartheid-rashida-tlaib-censorship/)

---

"@ReutersScience

Nord Stream rupture may mark biggest single methane release ever recorded, U.N. says"

---

Beto did ok on gov debate; but staying away from culture war would be
better, circling back everything to econ. Sounded soft immigration
(can be tied to econ) - the line should've been "Abbott is sending one
bus to NE, I will send 10!".

---

Expl wouldn't have to register to be effective. The carrier Ford
stress test was 18 tons of TNT equivalent, registered as 3.9 mag
Richter. A lot of Beumb.

---

Recent seismic data from around the Baltic region. No activity around
Sep 26th when the Nordstream sabotage happened.

```python
u.eq_at2(54.9701674206043, 14.933270115918607, radius=500, ago=300).tail(4)
```

```text
Out[1]: 
                     mag      lat      lon
date                                      
2022-04-07 19:58:46  4.7  51.4991  16.0769
2022-04-27 21:53:26  4.4  51.4957  16.1715
2022-05-03 18:24:01  4.1  51.4647  16.1444
2022-09-14 08:47:20  4.3  51.5993  16.2008
```

---

Before the NS sabotage there was talk in Germany to just turn on NS2
damn the consequences - clearly "some people" didn't want this issue
even discussed as an option. But IMO the perps overplayed their
hand.. now a lot of govs around the world are going WTF?

---

Washington Examiner: "'Irregular presence' of nuclear-capable Russian
bombers detected [in Russian Olenya air base] near Finland"

---

Haha Spox Ned at State now says 'Pak F-16 refurb isn't terrorism
related' bcz the T-word bothered India.

---

The magic.. I see

"The magic seems to be in the algorithm. Unlike other networks, TikTok
shows you more content based on what's popular and what you're most
interested in, downplaying the accounts you follow. Networks like
Facebook or Instagram show you content based on the accounts you
follow"

---

Same for 2022 by Platform, from May

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fd96aptWAAE0rbc?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Avg Monthly Hours Spent Per User Per Soc Media 

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fd96UyCX0AA3doX?format=jpg&name=small)

---

CNBC: "Facebook scrambles to escape stock's death spiral as users
flee, sales drop"

---
