# Week 28 

H2 Fuel News: "EU prepares green hydrogen import deal with Namibia"

---

H2 Fuel News: "bp and thyssenkrupp sign green hydrogen powered steel
production agreement"

---

H2 Central: "Electrolyser capital costs have fallen from more than
$3,700 per kW in 2020 to about 2,700 dollar per kW today and will drop
to below 200 dollar per kW by 2050 under the agency’s most optimistic
scenario. Under its most pessimistic scenario, capital costs will
decline to about 800 dol per kW, national science agency CSIRO said in
its annual GenCost report.

The main driver of falling electrolyser costs will be scale as the
size of systems grows from an average of 10 MW today to 100 MW modular
units in the coming years, CSIRO said.

CSIRO, said: 'Applying typical engineering cost scaling factors this
movement to full scale accounts for around an 80% reduction in
costs'. Electrolyser deployment is being supported by a substantial
number of hydrogen supply and end- use trials globally and in
Australia.'"

---

H2 Central: "Hycc Launches 500-Megawatt Hydrogen Project in The Port
of Amsterdam"

---

H2 under ambient conditions 11.9 m3 / kg, `1200 / 11.9 * 24` gives
2420 kg per day. Good

"@XCHGroup

China Huadian Corporation released its first alkaline electrolyzer
with a capacity of 1,200Nm3/h"

---

\#H2 \#Engines \#Cummins

[[-]](https://twitter.com/Cummins/status/1547265670953504769)

---

"EU grants for clean hydrogen | Shell, RWE and Air Liquide among
winners from €1.8bn handout"

---

World Oil Production

[[-]](../../2019/05/energstats.html#worldoil)

---

What is CCUS?

[[-]](https://youtu.be/HSvWrjviqZM?t=73)

---

Update on energy production by source, new data from BP. Renewables
don't look good. The 2% guesstimate checks out in the data (1.9% to be
exact -see the pie chart-).

[[-]](../../2019/05/energstats.html#sources)

---

Am all for green power gen. Until we get there, clean (blue) fuel
generation from fossil with CCUS should be fine. A perfectly reachable
goal.

---

Is that significant? Only 20% of overall energy consumption is
electricity, which means 2% of overall energy production is wind and
solar.

CNN: "Wind and solar generated a record 10% of the world's
[electricity] power in 2021, report shows"

---

Alan Hawkshaw - Hawkind And Fire \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/82BRAlgbq7c)

---

They jumped from one dubious concept to another... What's next? The
Big-Bang Theory? Time travel? Multiverses?

Voit: "Each summer for nearly a quarter-century there has been a big
yearly conference bringing together the string theory community..
Taking a look at the program, one thing that stands out is that the
string theory community has almost completely stopped doing string
theory...but.. the string theory community has found to replace string
theory: black holes"

---

That's some mad skillz right there

"@gunsnrosesgirl3

Interacting votices"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/gunsnrosesgirl3/status/1547304871753400321)

---

CNBC: "Dow futures fall more than 400 points as traders weigh potential for
big rate hikes"

---

"@JoannaStern

Bought new house. House has smart sprinkler system. Previous owners
turned off WiFi. Grass died because… no WiFi. House now has
WiFi. Grass is slowly coming back to life"

---

Steppenwolf - The Ostrich \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/XNO37aFAfkg)

---

Cargo delivery system shows, live, the number of stops left until the
delivery person reaches the door. I dig it.

---

Jane's Defense: "Boeing has concluded a demonstration of the F/A-18
Super Hornet's ability to launch from Indian aircraft carriers with
two Boeing AGM-84 Harpoon missiles"

---

"@tparsi

Biden's Iran policy is endorsed by Mark Dubowitz, who led the charge
to kill the JCPOA"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">NOTICE: On Tuesday, July 19, Chairman <a href="https://twitter.com/Sen_JoeManchin?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Sen_JoeManchin</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/EnergyDems?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@EnergyDems</a> will convene to examine federal regulatory authorities governing the development of interstate hydrogen pipelines, storage, import and export facilities.<br><br>For more information: <a href="https://t.co/mq82qoT3hI">https://t.co/mq82qoT3hI</a> <a href="https://t.co/UBeHioKNqp">pic.twitter.com/UBeHioKNqp</a></p>&mdash; SenateEnergyDems (@EnergyDems) <a href="https://twitter.com/EnergyDems/status/1547258476308697088?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 13, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@PlugPowerInc

Plug is proud to be selected by @IrvingOil, a 100-year-old
international energy company, to provide a.. PEM electrolyzer to its
Saint John refinery, which currently produces about 7% of all hydrogen
in Canada"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/3c17m4V)

---

Metal hydrides are very promising tech for storage, see Australian
company Lavo.

H2 View: "A Norwegian school is planned to become home to what is said
to be the world’s largest metal hydride-based hydrogen storage
facility. Hybrid Energy revealed on Tuesday (July 12), that its
daughter company Hystorsys had won a contract to install the hydrogen
storage at the Vestiden Junior Highschool in Kongsberg, Norway.

Hystorsys, a spin off from the Norwegian Institute for Energy
Technology (IFE), plans to install its storage solution at the school
to store excess energy produced by solar panels during the summer as
hydrogen, ready for winter consumption..

Hybrid Energy says its storage solution has the ability to store 1kg
of hydrogen in a 17-litre metal hydride unit at 30 bar, by comparison
to more traditional storage units offering 1kg in 42-litre units at
350 bar"

---

H2 View: "500MW green hydrogen plant plans for Port of Amsterdam unveiled"

---

Express: "A Japanese energy company is set to sign a £26million deal
to develop green hydrogen projects in Wales"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Airbus turns its focus toward a green hydrogen hub
strategy.. As the global clean energy supply chain continues to build,
the aerospace corporation intends to lead"

---

H2 View: "Hydrogen fuel cells could get a lot cheaper with newly
developed iron catalyst.. New research shows that the low-cost
material could provide a viable platinum alternative"

---

"@RHAMembers

Green hydrogen refuelling firm Element 2 recruits ExxonMobil veteran Nick Shelley"

---

"@VolvoGroup

@VolvoTrucks showcases a new zero-emissions truck powered by hydrogen!"

[[-]](http://ow.ly/4IT950JBr1U)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/UK?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#UK</a> getting ready for a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> future this week:<br>In an effort to prepare for hydrogen integration, UK-based <a href="https://twitter.com/OxfordFlow?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@OxfordFlow</a> has today (July 4) unveiled its hydrogen-ready, gas pressure regulator, the IM-S valve. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/repost?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#repost</a><a href="https://t.co/o1MAmxRhr8">https://t.co/o1MAmxRhr8</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1545860426155655169?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 9, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Bloomberg: "Oil’s Spectacular Covid Crash Set the World Up for $100
Crude.. The energy industry cut back during the pandemic, paving the
way for a runaway rally that has huge implications for the global
economy"

---

OPEC oil production below. The supply just isn't there.. No wonder
prices are high. At peak production was around 32 million barrels per
day, now it's at 29 mil.

[[-]](../../2019/05/energstats.html#opec)

---

Updated Taylor Rule calculation says a high fedfunds ie ripping off
the band aid - Volcker style. But the FED is on a rate hike path
already..

[[-]](../../2019/05/stats.html#taylor)

---

Inflation is way up

`2022-06-01  9.059758`

[[-]](../../2019/05/stats.html#cycle)

---

Rajapaksas were everywhere \#SriLanka... should've guessed some were
obviously connected to the last major success in that nation, beating
the Tamil Tigers.. Gotabaya was apparently SecDef when that happened,
brother was President. That kind of success buys you a lot of
political capital (now all lost).

---

I bet Labour would have liked to run against Johnson in the next
election with popularity being low and all, but now a fresh new leader
can complicate their oppo strategy.

---

WION: "Rishi Sunak emerges on top in first round of Conservative Party vote"

---

"@DRoverala

The USA Special Operations forces are involved in a low-profile proxy
war program - 127e program - on a far greater scale than previously
known, not just in multiple countries in #Africa, as previously
reported, but also in the MiddleEast & AsiaPacific"

[[-]](https://mobile.twitter.com/DRovera/status/1543478335551971329)

---

Arab News: "US destroyer sails near disputed South China Sea islands,
Beijing says it ‘drove’ ship away"

---

The Guardian: "Canada exempts Russian gas turbine from sanctions amid
Europe energy crisis.. Ottawa defies Ukraine’s objections to return of
equipment for Nord Stream 1 pipeline, saying it needs to support
Europe’s access to ‘reliable and affordable energy'"

---

Al Jazeera: "EU says Russian rail transport to Kaliningrad not banned"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Daimler Truck Tests Fuel-Cell Truck with Liquid Hydrogen <a href="https://t.co/bo4Wqop4Ah">https://t.co/bo4Wqop4Ah</a> <a href="https://t.co/aEp9BsyjMF">pic.twitter.com/aEp9BsyjMF</a></p>&mdash; DOFT (@doft_com) <a href="https://twitter.com/doft_com/status/1541654639459717120?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 28, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 Central: "Thyssengas is planning an 800-kilometer hydrogen launch
grid in Germany... The transmission system operator Thyssengas
currently operates a 4,400-kilometre-long transmission network, most
of which still transports natural gas. But that is about to change. In
the future, these pipelines will gradually be converted to hydrogen..

With the establishment of a “Thyssengas H2 start network” based on the
existing natural gas network, Thyssengas wants to underline its own
claim to be a pioneer and designer of the energy transition... [Its
CEO] sees the establishment of an H2 network based on existing natural
gas pipelines as a necessary lever and an important signal to
producers, importers and consumers in the Thyssengas grid area...

Thyssengas’ hydrogen grid planning is based on around 45 declarations
of intent (MoUs) that Thyssengas has concluded with potential hydrogen
producers and customers as part of a market survey conducted by FNB
Gas e.V., an association of supra-regional gas transport companies.

Over the 800 kilometres of pipeline identified, these future customers
are to be reliably supplied with hydrogen from 2030 at the
latest. These are lines that are to be successively rededicated for
hydrogen transport or rebuilt in parts"

---

H2 View: "Nel Hydrogen US, a subsidiary of Nel ASA, has received a €4m
purchase order from Viva Energy Australia Pty. Ltd. (Viva Energy) for
a MC500 containerised PEM electrolyser"

---

H2 View: "H2 Clipper hires veteran aerospace
executive.. California-based H2 Clipper, Inc., an aerospace and
alternative energy company developing uniquely capable
hydrogen-powered airships and end-to-end hydrogen infrastructure
solutions, has announced that Joe Massaquoi has joined the company as
Chief Financial Officer (CFO)"

---

Heavy hitter is on it; this is serious business.

"@E_H_Krasniqi

Germany appoints former energy state secretary Rainer Baake as special
emissary for energy cooperation with Namibia, tasked with implementing
the gigantic ramp-up of a green hydrogen economy in the Southern
African country"

---

H2 Central: "EVs will be overtaken by hydrogen cars by 2030, predicts
auto expert.. An automotive industry expert in Germany recently issued
a bold dismissal of electric vehicles, declaring that EVs will be
overtaken by hydrogen-powered cars. Before an audience, Dr. Felix
Gress, head of Continental’s corporate communications and public
affairs, argued that battery-electric vehicles represent poor value
for money"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">India Says on Track to Be a Solar <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/solar?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#solar</a> and Green Hydrogen Powerhouse - Bloomberg <a href="https://t.co/V8orRN8tOm">https://t.co/V8orRN8tOm</a></p>&mdash; The Solar Move (@TheSolarMove) <a href="https://twitter.com/TheSolarMove/status/1546800307425882112?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 12, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

WION: "Greenhouse gas emissions from US inflicted damage worth almost
$2 trillion on other countries"

---

TDB: "The Marvel Cinematic Universe’s Phase 4 Has Been a Total Train
Wreck.. [T]hough CinemaScore grades are reliably unreliable, the fact
that three of the four most poorly rated MCU films have premiered in
the past 12 months isn’t a coincidence. The quality has noticeably
dipped"

---

MCU is building up to this? Read both 80s and 2015. The 80s one was
weird (but made money they say). 2015 could be their target. Dr Doom
kills Thanos! 😂 Spoiled that muthaf..ka didn't I? Aw shit

---

OK. I read the comic what about it?

---

MCU Secret Wars? 

---

It makes sense the right does not like teachers; they are the
personification of the dumb shitlib who doesn't know anything but
simply relays knowledge from some kind of 'authority' to the student
but thinks are always right because those authorities happen to be
secular -which of course is no guarantee for anything-.

---

I recommend, teachers, record your own lectures, and flip the
classroom. Next stage, flip the classroom around *someone else's
lecture*, students get quality that way if the teacher is a 'dud'.

---

The lack of focus on the latter part causes focus on the
former..

Alternative ed is not being discussed, so within the confines of
current system teacher quality would be the focus - that is the only
parameter that can be tuned.

On that, [some countries](../../2021/03/unrivaled-beckley.html#ed) do well,
but most others dont.. I don't think you can do Finland style ed
without being Finland. We need a scalable new approach.

The Mandarin: "Remember when former [Oz] Morrison government minister
Stuart Robert lashed out at 'dud' teachers? In March, the then-acting
education minister said the 'bottom 10%' of teachers 'can’t read and
write' and blamed them for declining academic results.. We are fixated
on 'teacher quality'.. My analysis found the focus on 'quality' was
far more on teachers than, say, teaching approaches, schools,
schooling, education systems or anything else"

---

Available materials throughout history, strength/density graph

We've discovered some interesting new materials eh?

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FXd7Ba1WAAAWvvN?format=jpg&name=medium)

---

The outer alliance did a good job isolating Europe from its energy
supply. Look anywhere in the map where Europe can get energy, "the
Anglos" created major trouble. Oil-rich Libya? Turned into a
'shitshow' thanks to US. Iran with massive oil/gas reserves is
constantly kept outside the system... Iraq is a clusterfuck, but by
now an old story. Russian relationship? Turned sour thanks to US
meddling in Ukraine. I bet these muckers would mess with Norway if
they could because they are supplying energy to Europe.

---

Covid: My vote is still is accidential lab leak of engineered virus
(US's fault for allowing research to begin and using an unreliable
lab) or, less likely but still possible, intentional leak triggered by
shadowy US figures. I put intentional China triggered leak below those
two - the aftermath makes it less likely, China had no good vaccines,
and continued lockdowns, workplace interruptions caused major
headaches for them.

---

Lech Walesa is a legend - but this ain't the 80s.

---

Yeah; good luck with that

"[F]ormer Polish President and Nobel Peace Prize winner Lech Walesa
spoke out in support of dismantling the Russian Federation"

---

"@DanielLDavis1

The US gives Ukraine sophisticated HIMARs rocket launchers that hurt
Russia. Moscow responds by getting 100s of sophisticated attack drones
from Iran that will likely hurt Ukraine. Neither is a 'game changer'
for either side"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/DanielLDavis1/status/1546885454997471235)

---

H2 Central: "Fabrum partner with HWR to decarbonise its transport
fleet with hydrogen... Fabrum’s world-leading AFCryocooler cryogenic
technology, which enables gas separation and liquefaction, combined
with patented Membrane-Free Electrolyser™ technology from UK company
Clean Power Hydrogen (CPH2) – splits water into pure hydrogen and
medical grade oxygen – without the polymer membrane used in common PEM
electrolysers. A 1.1 MW system can produce 450kg of hydrogen per day
from water"

---

FCHEA: "As more and more countries continue to use hydrogen, it’s
worth revisiting countries.. such as China and India...

China has been an early adopter of hydrogen, and many of its
previous laws and regulations called for the adoption of a hydrogen
economy. Recently however, the Chinese government published the first
official hydrogen plan for the country, designed to set specific
guidelines, and long-term growth targets for the hydrogen industry.
The plan covers a wide range of areas, from manufacturing, and
research capabilities, manufacturing targets, and specific goals for
hydrogen production and consumption... Overall, the central government
seeks to “significantly improve” the portion of clean hydrogen in use
across China by 2035. To do so, the government released some nearer
term targets to produce up to 200,000 tons of clean hydrogen.. In
addition to the central government, local governments and the private
sector are also getting involved in the clean hydrogen economy...

India has also begun to recognize clean hydrogen as essential to
decarbonization. The Indian government recently announced a “phase
one” document for clean hydrogen production, and released a set of
policies in early 2022. The policies include allowing clean hydrogen
producers to buy renewable energy at reduced rates, simplifying the
permitting and licensing process to prioritize clean hydrogen, and
allowing the construction of storage containers next to ports designed
for hydrogen. The government has also promised to waive inter-state
transmission charges for 25 years if the project is commissioned
before June 30, 2025. This would significantly reduce the cost of
clean hydrogen, potentially jumpstarting the hydrogen economy in
India. This is all part of the government’s effort to reduce carbon
emissions to zero by 2070. The government plans to release more
policies to encourage the use of hydrogen production, including
manufacturing zones dedicated to clean hydrogen"

---

ERR News: "Estonia is aiming to create a nationwide Hydrogen Valley to
further develop energy independence and in anticipation of the
European Green Deal.. In the coming six years, green hydrogen
production will be developed in at least six regions in the
country. The hydrogen produced in Estonia will be used for hydrogen
fuelling public transport, heavy-duty vehicles, rail, shipping,
aviation, and other transport modalities. During this time, it is
planned to form a "complete and full nationwide hydrogen value chain"
that will accelerate the energy transition and independence of the
whole country under the motto '"from zero to green", a press release
issued by Tartu City Council said"

---

H2 Central: "The Korea H2 Business Summit, a hydrogen council
established primarily by major companies such as Hyundai Motor, SK and
POSCO, set up a fund to promote the hydrogen industry.

The fund worth 500 billion won (US$383 million) will be established
via investments from domestic member companies and foreign investors
and is expected to be liquidated after 10 years of operation...

Bahn Sang-woo, a managing director of Mirae Asset Securities, said:
'The fund set the yield rate target at 8 percent, with 70 percent of
the fund used for the establishment of infrastructure and 30 percent
for technology investment'"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Hydrogen fuel cell plant opens near Vancouver,
Canada.. The multimillion-dollar Cellcentric facility will produce the
units as well as stacks for truck makers"

---

H2 View: "Isuzu, DENSO, Toyota, Hino, and CJPT to Start Planning and
Foundational Research on Hydrogen Engines for Heavy-Duty Commercial
Vehicles"

---

"@H2Standard

The city of Shanghai has announced plans for a network of over 70
hydrogen refueling stations (HRS). Of this total, Shenneng has won
tenders to build about 20"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/3NUSpi3)

---

Politico: "The question of whether to grant an exception to sanctions
on Russia in order to fix the Nord Stream 1 pipeline saw Canada torn
between the demands of Germany, which remains dependent on Russian
fuel, and Ukraine’s pleas to cut Russian revenue streams.

Canada will grant a 'time-limited and revocable permit' so Siemens can
deliver turbines to Germany following their maintenance in Montreal,
Natural Resources Minister.. announced'"

---

Davis: "There Is No ‘Magic Bullet’ That Can Turn The Tide For
Ukraine... In some instances, fighting tenaciously in the face of
considerable enemy superiority can prove to be the difference between
victory and defeat. For example, in the famous Battle of the Bulge,
the U.S. 101st Airborne Division refused to surrender in Bastogne even
after it had been surrounded and cut off by the advancing German
army...

The U.S. commander, however, had good reason to hold on even against
an enemy with overwhelming numbers of artillery and tanks: as soon as
the fog and cloud cover broke, the U.S. commander could expect massive
air support to break the back of the German assaults and aerial
resupply of ammunition and food to Bastogne’s defenders. More
critically, Gen. George S. Patton’s 4th Armored Division was also
racing north to relieve the 101st. For the Ukraine defenders, on the
other hand, there is no such help coming...

The much-ballyhooed supply of 'heavy weapons' from the West..  will
not be enough to turn the tide"

[[-]](https://www.19fortyfive.com/2022/07/there-is-no-magic-bullet-that-can-turn-the-tide-for-ukraine/)

---

"Austrian Armed Forces Colonel Markus Reisner gives an update on the
situation in Eastern Ukraine"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/dEbLuAPobao?t=74)

---

"@IllumingPower

\#NewYork has signed a multi-state agreement that includes 40 private
& public sector entities to develop a proposal for a regional clean
#hydrogen hub in a bid to grab part of $8bn of funding from the
Department of Energy 🗽"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/IllumingPower/status/1546151234620596224)

---

Gasworld: "The UK is set to propel its transition to a more
sustainable and secure energy environment following the introduction
of its landmark Energy Security Bill.. the Bill is considered to be
the most ambitious package of energy measures to go before parliament
in a decade. Containing 26 measures based around the deployment of low
carbon technologies such as carbon capture, usage, and storage (CCUS),
and hydrogen, in addition to suggesting measures to mitigate rising
energy costs, the Bill will be introduced by Business and Energy
Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng"

---

"@respectmyplanet

Today Sunday July 10, 2022 I saw a TV commercial on ABC during the
This Week with George Stephanopolous show promoting green
\#hydrogen. This is first time ever I have seen such a thing in the
USA and I have been watching very closely. An inflection point in H2
adoption trajectory"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/respectmyplanet/status/1546124490995863553)

---

Times of India: "The Adani Group recently made an announcement that it
has partnered with France's TotalEnergies to create a green hydrogen
ecosystem. On the other side, Reliance Industries will also invest Rs
75,000 crore over the next three years to set up a new clean-energy
business...

The government launched the National Hydrogen Energy Mission (NHEM) in
2021-22. This year, the Ministry of Power notified Green Hydrogen
Policy (GHP) and welcomed industry leaders. The policy will help meet
the target of 5 million tonnes of green hydrogen production by 2030"

---

I'm sure "pro-bidness" governor is fine with that

Texas Tribune: "Texans face skyrocketing home energy bills as the
state exports more natural gas than ever. The cost of electricity in
Texas is tightly tied to the price of natural gas, which has more than
doubled since Russia invaded Ukraine in late February"

---

The Flipped Classroom Model

[[-]](https://youtu.be/qdKzSq_t8k8)

---

	
Left-wing Catholics aren't much of a Catholic but they cling on to the
title, especially if it is part of a minority ethnic position; it's
like a lastname that is passed down, the thing parents say they are
and the thing others call them that "sets them apart". In cultural
terms it matters little, grander society will assimilate no running
away from it. Then they go against the teachings. So why bother? 

---


Turkist ideology was always useful for the Anglo. Imagine you have
bunch of deluded people in a strategic peninsula who think they are
not from there, that will encourage "frontier" mentality in that
country. Frontier for what? Frontier for the Anglo. That is why the
outer alliance likes Turkist ideology - also useful for them in the
Caucuses, Central As against Russia (if it can peel off a few
countries here and there based on "common ethnicity" the better)-. So
this is the reason especially post 80s the state narrative emphasized
turning Kemal into a deitic figure, citizens were supposed to worship
Kemal, and he looks Anglo, so through Kemal you worship the Anglo
(your alliance with them).

---

Now that I think about it the "Grand Ancestor" Kemal looks Anglo

---

These canals are so tiny; saw Panama Canal on a map, holy thin little
slice that was. Where is that wide effin cahuna of canal?  I'm talking
about the Grand Canyon of Water Canals. Like Boom! MIA

---

"@DanDePetris

Name a period in U.S. history when human rights were at the center of
U.S. foreign policy. I can’t think of any. A lot of presidents insist
that human rights serve as a foundation. Then they realize that, gosh,
working with autocracies is an unavoidable part of the job"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Gilbarco Veeder-root Prepares For The Hydrogen
Transport Revolution.. It is making available a suite of compression,
dispensing and software solutions, allowing the creation of a network
of renewable or low-carbon hydrogen refuelling stations around the
world. The company is now at advanced stages of developing new
technologies and creating partnerships to.. offer gaseous hydrogen to
serve an ever-increasing number of hydrogen fuel-cell powered
vehicles"

---

H2 View: "LONGi to provide alkaline electrolysers to world’s largest
green hydrogen project... One year after its inception, LONGi Hydrogen
has won the Sinopec Green Hydrogen Demonstration Project, to supply
‘world leading large scale’ alkaline water electrolyser equipment"

---

H2 View: "Hydroplane remains on course for first hydrogen demonstration
flight by 2023 with new US Air Force contract"

---

The grid even looks like shit. [Seriously](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FXSTCWYWAAIHhx1?format=jpg&name=small). 
But a [pipeline](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FMA3m-DWUAMDe-D?format=jpg&name=small),
lookit. Straightforward, efficient.

---

H2 pipelines are equally efficient compared to the grid. So there is
no need to remain an 'electricity person'.

"@LionHirth

As an electricity person, I keep being humbled by the energy-carrying
capacity of gas infrastructure. A pipeline (say, Nord Stream 1) can
carry gas worth 540 TWh per year. That's 30x times the energy you can
put through an HVDC line. Thirty"

---

2021 had 516 billion cubic meters of LNG shipped (the volume is of
what natgas liquid translates into when gasified, not of the liquid
itself). In BOE terms `516*1e9 / (170*1e3*365)` means 8315 kboe / day,
equivalent to 10 Nordstream pipelines. Not bad.

---

LNG ship traffic per year

[[-]](../../2019/05/energstats.html#lng)

---

Secular liberals pride themselves for not following church teachings,
as they have "advanced beyond that" and are now "enlightened". But
they do follow things -secular media, officials' edicts- and they do
follow quite blindly. Electrification mantra was handed down from such
channels, and these muckers ate that up like there was no tomorrow,
and asked for more. That makes them a herd of sorts, different type
than pre-modern religious, but a herd all the same.

---

Fossil fuel lobby might have allowed electrification to be popular
because the lobby knew fools would go around and around, hit a brick
wall, fail and eventually come back to their arms in desperation,
wanting more fossil fuel. Diabolical yes but still
shortsighted... e-retards did create a buzz which grew to certain
degree. At the same time climate was truly in danger, **and** there
was a viable option which remained unexplored for a while because of
the e-retards.

---

They talk big game on multiple universes, time, multiple dimensions,
math..  But dividing 431 by 70 and multiplying by 60? Nah can't do that.
That calc would have [given them](../../2022/02/base-energy-numbers.html#lithium)
the amount of lithium required to store one day's worth of energy on
batteries, and compared to 17 mtonnes (available reserves), it
would make blatanty clear the popular view was shit.

---

Scientists roam... they roam the media, MSM, alternative, or
otherwise..  Yet most of these people are just trend followers.. They
followed the electrification mantra without thinking about it.

---

Suez data

```python
import pandas as pd;df = pd.read_csv('suez.csv',index_col=0)
print (df[['novessel','net(mton)']].tail(3))
```

```text
      novessel  net(mton)
year                     
2019     18880     1207.1
2020     18829     1170.0
2021     20694     1127.0
```

If trend continues ships `5303*4=21212` and net tonnage `313*4=1252`
will beat the previous year's numbers. Busy busy busy.. 

---

"Head of the Suez Canal Authority.. said.. that more than 5,303 ships
carrying a combined cargo of 313.3 million tons transited the Suez
Canal during the first quarter of 2022"

---

The implication is people are fools, are easily led by the nose one
way or another. Want better resuls? Provide better leadership for
them.

---

Culture Codes can and are frequently used to influence voters who can
end up voting for stuff that are against their interests. Culture is
in emotional brain, stronger in effect than the analytic.  That's how
successful ads work too. An ad that highlights IDENTITY will sell
better in US than an ad which talks about the technical specifications
of a car.

---

Not only did DM help cement the culture war in US to divert attention
from real issues, he achived the same result in the United Kingdom. If
there was a psyop agent that aimed to undermine common people's
interests, it's this guy. In both cases he ended up helping the
well-to-do, the rich oligarchy by creating a smokescreen, so they hid
behind it while others yelled at eachother on bizarre issues and/or
at organizations such as the EU.

---

Dick Morris [again](../../2021/10/all-too-human.html#triangulation),
providing services on another hot-button division, playing on cultural
rifts, engaging in dubious voter manipulation.

"UKIP's triumphal march in England and Wales began in 2004. However,
arguably this 'Cinderella story' would not have materialised without
Dick Morris, who helped UKIP with its slogans, and simplified the
essential message in 2003 – this can be considered as the second
turning point.  Morris’ aim was to mobilise the anti-EU -citizens and
UKIP’s slogan was simplified to 'Say NO'; this phrasing left it to the
individual to contemplate their subjective dissatisfaction towards the
EU without UKIP putting words or arguments into their mouths. The use
of Morris’ service cost UKIP £2.36 million, but the spending enabled
UKIP to rise from sidelines to the mainstream.. As far as word choices
in the official documents are concerned, they are arguably practical,
easily understandable, appealing and easy for 'the man in the street'
to identify with"

[PDF](https://trepo.tuni.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/97216/GRADU-1432883596.pdf?sequence=1)

---

"@JustinTLogan

The smart US play would have used the Zeitenwende as an opportunity to
hand Europe off to the Europeans. Sending 20k additional US troops to
Europe makes me think that’s not what we’re going to do

FT: 'Is the west’s increased defence spending even necessary?'"

---

Talks of intl criminal law? Make sure to start proceedings on US
crimes in Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the firebombing of Tokyo..

---
