# Week 10 

---

H2 View: "EU draws out plan to increase hydrogen production to replace
Russian fossil fuels and gas dependency.. The European Commission has
revealed a brand-new plan in which to phase out dependency on Russian
gas and fossil fuels with hydrogen a key aspect of this"

---

H2 View: "Air Liquide gains French State support for 200MW Normandy
hydrogen production project"

---

H2 View: "Australia, Germany officially open new incubator to support
hydrogen projects and reduce its cost.. Australia and Germany have
both solidified their commitments to hydrogen with the official
opening of the Innovation and Technology Incubator aimed at
collaborations between the two countries"

---

H2 View: "Fortescue Future Industries (FFI) and Airbus have formed a
focused taskforce to implement green hydrogen within the aviation
industry in an effort to decarbonise the future of flying"

---

[Bancor](2019/06/bancor.md)

---

Petrodollar system going bust after latest events? It is possible.

---

😂 

MarketWatch: "Leaders of Saudi Arabia, UAE declined calls with Biden
amid Ukraine crisis"

---

Better meet MBS, shake the man's hand and give a good, wide smile
while doing it

Axios: "Biden advisers weigh Saudi Arabia trip for more oil"

---

But forget about that - [let's clap](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/64/3c/d5/643cd5fb6f6b57719be90ff8102b1b07.gif)

---

Watch Mariupol, a city in the South, under attack. It is slowly turning
into a parking lot. The soundbytes coming out of there are not 'the
resistance' but 'humanitarian corridors'. People are trying to get the
f--k out.

---

Why is it assumed there will be 'urban fighting' in Kyiv, Ukranian
cities? Attackers can easily shell, bomb Kyiv into a big pile of
rubble wout taking a step into the city.

---

WaPo: "Zelensky receives standing ovation, calls for more support in
address to U.K. Parliament via video"

---

Politico: "UN: 2 million people have now fled Ukraine"

---

Failure of monarchs (first wave concept) being in disagreement with
the modern states (second wave concept) is actually normal. Feudal,
1st wave ruling is about land expansion, posh elites who do whatever
in their palaces (thanks beating on peasants, taking their
money). Second wave structures are different, waves cannot mix like
oil and water. The incompatbility could cause major suffering, as in
the alleged fueling of WWI.

---

WWI being caused by a family feud.. Sometimes real answers are avoided
bcz mainstream (history/politics) wants to hide something or mired in
self-delusion. While studying finance I'd read journos; columnists
would regularly throw up their hands and go "well, it's a mystery,
year after year, stimulus after stimulus, there is still no
inflation". The obvious was avoided -- the money was going to
corporations, not to people.

Same with WWI, the bigger reason is "unknown". The assasination of
Franz Ferdinand is the obvious 'trigger', but the plethora of equally
viable (and contradicting) theories fail to reach a conclusion. People
throw up their hands and say "still a big mystery to us". 🤨 Is the
consensus trying to avoid certain conslusions?

---

Yes you could say Ukraine 'ate the quince'

---

Q is somewhat tougher to chew on maybe that's why is used in the idiom.

---

This could be where the tigger idiom *ayvayı yedi* comes from, 'he ate
the quince'; a way of saying 'you stepped in it' when a person messes
up, stuff goes wrong, and is now in trouble.

---

Haha

"The quince may have in fact been the 'forbidden fruit' in the Garden
of Eden that tempted Eve"

---

Testing the fruit quince for new veg mix

---

Thought ZC was done until the Winter Olympics. Now that WO is over,
any reason to continue it? Omicron will overwhelm it anyway..

South China Morning Post: "Shenzhen electronics market shut as
zero-Covid policy forces lockdown"

---

H2 View: "JBIC invests.. support the ‘world’s largest’ clean hydrogen
infrastructure investment fund. The Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC) has revealed plans to invest up to €100m ($108m)
into a clean hydrogen infrastructure fund"

---

H2 View: "Egypt could be set to grow its hydrogen economy with the
revealing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to assess low-carbon
hydrogen production in the country. Signed by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the company will support Egypt
in achieving its renewable energy potential with masses of solar
energy production which can then be turned into hydrogen"

---

H2 View: "100 hydrogen fuel cell cold-chain logistic vehicles have
officially been put into operation in Beijing, China, as the country
looks to expand its hydrogen expertise"

---

H2 View: "A major new hydrogen project in the US is set to be
developed in Texas.. Dubbed Hydrogen City, the project is being
developed by Green Hydrogen international (GHI) and will include
integrated green hydrogen production, storage, and transportation
capabilities.. able to produce 2.5 billion kilogrammes of green
hydrogen each year...

Included within the project is the development of a hydrogen storage
facility in the Piedras Pintas Salt Dome. From this facility,
pipelines will deliver the green hydrogen to Corpus Christi and
Brownsville where it will be turned into green ammonia, sustainable
aviation fuel and other fuels... This also opens up opportunities to
potentially be directly transported to hydrogen power plants and other
users around the state"

[[-]](https://www.h2-view.com/story/60gw-green-hydrogen-production-storage-and-distribution-megaproject-to-be-developed-in-texas-us/)

---

H2 Fuel News: "Israel to roll out new hydrogen powered trucks.. The
introduction of the vehicles is the result of a new deal among
Colmobil, Bazan and Sonol"

---

The road towards the conflict was full of images of EU getting cucked
on energy.  "We'll cut your pipeline (NS2)", "we'll find you natgas if
things go awry (from Qatar, while tying them into NATO in the
process)". We'll take care of you boy.. Don't you worry.. Are you
happy now, feel taken care of, BOY?

---

I repeat the scenario. This whole ordeal can still be an answer to a
long-running ploy to cut off EU/RU energy relation, to stop the
formation of an Eurasian Superpowah.. RU gets tired of the little
blocks, delays here and there, throws down the gauntlet. 'We either
form a good relationship, or there is trouble'

---

And I wonder why...

UK.gov: "Unlike other countries in Europe, the UK is in no way
dependent on Russian gas supply... There are no gas pipelines directly
linking the UK with Russia and imports from Russia made up less than
4% of total UK gas supply in 2021"

---

UK sounds more enthusiastic on banning RU energy

---

I'm glad Germany denied the ban.

---

I really wanted to see RU part of this whole H2/NH3 transition..
Hopefully latest events are not a show-stopper in the long-term.

---

Politico: "Germany’s Scholz rejects calls to ban Russian oil and gas"

---

That's exactly right

"Mid-tempo 80s boogie feel - slap bass and all - with warm keys"

---

Merschmellows - Soulpower (Jazzanova Rework) \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LpeYkFHtj38)

---

All those relations could not stop (allegedly fueled) a World War, one
would assume relatives holding high positions in each country could
act as natural ambassadors to eachother's countries, but no. They failed
and now mostly disappeared.

---

They are all related, like inbred probably, everybody's somebody
else's mother, half-brother, father, cousin, they they all have weird
relations, maybe including the royal goat (royalty is a product of
agrarian era, you never know what goes on in there, at those
palaces. It's f--ked up).

---

I first heard this angle in a 2021 movie in all places, *The King's
Man*, was pretty well done historically.

End of WWI saw the fall of two of those monarchs, and others too in
Europe. Maybe they got what they deserved, paid the price for their
uselessness.

---

"Was WWI caused by a family feud?

Far from being remote rulers who knew nothing of their enemies, the
heads of state of Britain, Germany and Russia – George V, Kaiser
Wilhelm II and Tsar Nicholas II – were first cousins who knew one
another very well.

A BBC documentary screened in 2018, *Royal Cousins at War*, told the
story of Wilhelm's difficult relationship with his parents and
antipathy towards all things British and argues that this helped bring
the world to the brink of war.

The three monarchs were like 'sleepwalkers stepping towards an open
lift shaft', Richard Davenport-Hines says in his review of Miranda
Carter's book on the subject, *The Three Emperors*. The events leading
up to the conflict are 'a study in the envy, insincerity, festering
rancour and muddle that only families can manage'.

Unlike many family feuds, however, disagreements between the royal
cousins exacted a geopolitical price. 'As relationships between the
royal cousins waxed and waned, so did the relationships between their
countries,' the Daily Mail's Ruth Styles says"

[[-]](https://www.theweek.co.uk/59782/how-did-the-first-world-war-start)

---

Interesting point on League of Nations too, that US itself would not
join.. Tsck tsck tsck

---

Comrade Ho

---

Fought for self-determination but then his system devolved into
dictatorship? Great job, Ho

[[-]](2022/03/principles-of-int-politics-mesquita.md)

---


That'll show them.. How can a country manage wout Tiktok?

"TikTok restricts service in Russia and Netflix stops streaming"

---

Jane's Defense: "Russia has established an unprecedented
command-and-control (C2) structure to co-ordinate its multipronged
invasion of Ukraine. For the first time it is simultaneously running a
major operation through the headquarters of four military districts,
which are the equivalent of four-star headquarters in Western military
organisations"

---

Gravitas Plus: Did NATO push Ukraine into war?

[[-]](https://youtu.be/TzgPJeYZaOU)

---

Stalingrad, "the gap", Ukraine

[[-]](2017/07/the-next-decade-friedman.md#ukrgap)

---

NATO, Russia, ambiguity \#aljazeera

[[-]](https://youtu.be/dTaAv3WInZw?t=933)

---

The Independent: "German Embassy tweets Russia to slap down claim its
troops are fighting Nazism in Ukraine.. ‘Shame on anyone who’s falling
for this,’ embassy says"

---

We were joking abt this before but now US politics truly became Russia
Russia Russia.

---

Zelensky might have been had by that drone help by Anatolian gov,
which itself might have been spurred by Brits. They weren't helping
you out of the goodness of their hearts.. If shit hit the fan over
there that would be good for them bcz that would mean less pressure on
Idlib (which Russia/Assad want to take back). Then there is the energy
ploy.. Your war was someone else's gain.

---

Nooo.. losing the consultants.. What will Russia do?

Reuters: "Accounting firms KPMG and PwC to exit Russia"

---

Legendary investor.. who likes battery-electric cars by the way 🤨 Some
legend you are

---

Secular peak? Going back to $12.. ?

Note: Even before Feb invasion crude was over $80

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FNNsxPRXwAAQq82?format=jpg&name=small)

---

"U.S. crude oil briefly tops $130 a barrel, a 13-year high"

---

I will turn Gotham into an icy graveyard make it cool

---

Mr Freeze in a future Batman??

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Wow! 😎 💥 ⚡️ ⚡️ ⚡️ 👏 <br><br>A major new hydrogen project in the US, touted as the “world’s largest” green hydrogen production and storage hub, is set to be developed in Texas with a capacity of 60GW.<br><br>Dubbed Hydrogen City, the project is being developed by…<a href="https://t.co/0oPhvZ5l6V">https://t.co/0oPhvZ5l6V</a></p>&mdash; steve haak (@stevehaak) <a href="https://twitter.com/stevehaak/status/1499808549337067521?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 4, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

--- 

H2 View: "[Washington state launched].. a new association dedicated to
reducing air and water pollution, creating clean energy jobs and
growing the US state into a major hydrogen producer... [The] Board
[has] Tacoma Power, the Douglas County Public Utility District, Toyota
Motor North America, and the Bonneville Environmental Foundation"

---

H2 View: "‘President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission,
spoke of the role hydrogen can have in displacing Russian gas
dependency"

---

H2 View: "New breakthrough catalyst-coated membrane to reduce
electrolyser costs by 25%... Within lab testing, [Honeywell] has found
that the technology enables higher electrolyser efficiency and higher
electric current density which is estimated to also provide a 25%
reduction in electrolyser stack costs"

---

H2 View: "Finnish start-up commits to 50 hydrogen station developments by 2030"

---

H2 View: "Indonesia has set its sights on the hydrogen opportunity
with the country ready to utilise green hydrogen, ammonia and carbon
capture and storage to reduce its carbon footprint.. This is according
to Antara News, who reported that a value chain for each of these
technologies will be explored in Indonesia in order to create a hub
for clean energy and operations"

---

Different core energy sources all generating H2 fuel will
automatically ensure supply availability. Most cars use gasoline -from
crude oil-, much of heating uses natural gas.. But if crude oil and
natural gas *both* generate H2, and cars and heating *both* use H2,
then supply problems with either NG, or crude will be less
important. Not to mention solar, hydro which can be used to generate
clean fuel as well, adding to the supply, increasing the overall
resillience of the energy system. H2/NH3 will be the "molecular lingua
franca" of energy transmission, allowing all kinds of raw energy
source to be used by varied types of consumption.

---

WION, Sharma Upadhyay, they have some interesting angles. Boy can she
monologue.. 

---

Haha "We are running out of toiler paper -- maybe we should stop writing on it"

---

"In November of 1973, *The Tonight Show* host Johnny Carson made a joke
about a toilet paper shortage, prompting a run on toilet paper as
Americans rushed to buy every roll they could find"

---

♪♬ Bombs blow, let the Benjamins flow ♪♬

Jane's Defense: "Russian invasion of Ukraine to impact Pentagon budget"

---

<blockquote width="200" class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">i love how they can’t even coherently explain why the “best experience” needs internet so they just force you to do it <a href="https://t.co/CJ9VldOaKw">https://t.co/CJ9VldOaKw</a></p>&mdash; Internet of Shit (@internetofshit) <a href="https://twitter.com/internetofshit/status/1500156415863787520?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 5, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The American Prospect: "The Biden Education Department Drags a
Bankrupt Cancer Patient Into Court.. Despite vowing to change the way
student loans are treated in bankruptcy, the administration is still
using its discretion to limit payouts"

[[-]](https://prospect.org/education/biden-education-department-drags-bankrupt-cancer-patient-into-court/)

---

Now Trump is going gung-ho in the other direction to offset this narrative

"@NBCNews

Former Vice President Pence to tell GOP donors in a speech Friday
there 'is no room in this party for apologists for Putin,'"

---

"@sheslostheplot

My apartment has an app to use the washing machines and now my washing
machine is sending me marketing emails"

---

Foolio - List Of Dead Opps - "that boy was a fighter, but, he got lit
likе a lighter". The full lyrics are hard core 

---

Yes

"@AdamSerwer

I don’t think Russian artists should be forced to take public disloyalty oaths"

---

Asia has huge landmass compared to Europe.. US/Canada are far from the
West direction, but if RU becomes Asia/Pacific oriented, both sides
can go on bickering over there.. Could be good for my native hood;
Just get the f--k out, do your shit elsewhere

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FNHXrneXMAA--B0?format=png&name=small)

---

Extreme case for RU, if UKR is "pacified", it will be a true buffer
with the West, and RU will "decouple", the mega-sanctions will ensure
that, Russia lean towards Asia.

---

Need that IRN gas output in case RU becomes unavailable, or at least
to bring the current prices down. Crude oil too. IRN has vast NG
reserves.

"Iran, IAEA hold talks as nuclear negotiations near finish line"

---

US stawk trouble..? Due to people or companies having investments in
RU.

"Moscow to ban foreign investors from selling Russian assets"

---

\#Mearsheimer

"Now [some are] talking about a situation where you defeat the
Russians in Ukraine. This is a much worse outcome for the Russians
than what happened in April 2008, and a much worse outcome .. [than]
in February 2014...  [The R]ussians are not going to roll over and
play dead,.. they're going to crush the Ukrainians, they're going to
bring out the big guns, .. to turn places like [Kyiv] and other cities
in Ukraine into rubble. They're going to do Fallujas, they're going to
do Mosuls, they're going to do Groznies.

[Remember] what happened in [WWII] when the United States was faced
with the possibility of having to invade the Japanese home islands in
early 1945. The idea of invading the Japanese home islands after what
happened at Iwo Jima and then later what happened in Okinawa really
spooked us, so.. we decided to burn Japanese cities to the ground
starting on March 10th 1945. We killed more people the first night, we
firebombed Tokyo, than we killed at either Hiroshima or Nagasaki, and
we were systematically burning Japanese cities to the ground. Why?
Because we did not want to invade the Japanese main islands. [This is
what happens w]hen a great power feels threatened"

---

Mearsheimer, on Ukraine, Russia, NATO expansion

[[-]](https://youtu.be/ppD_bhWODDc?t=795)

---

UKR is fighting at home turf, other side will not shy away from
turning all cities to rubble until it gets its 'buffer'. 

---

News media likes stories like "Ukranian moms making molotof cocktails
in their kitchen" but cant win modern wars through "moms making molotof
cocktails in the kitchen".

---

WSJ: "Refugees Fleeing Ukraine Now Represent Biggest Movement of
People in Europe Since World War II"

---

That's funny \#batman

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FM9QDfyXMAEme9z?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Chizzle that shizzle

---

"@MartinNobel_

Microsoft cancelling HoloLens 3 means they know there's no actual
future for a Metaverse"

---

The Independent: "France accuses UK of ‘lack of humanity’ after 150
Ukraine refugees turned away at Calais"

---

I wouldn't read too much into that

Politico: "Putin blows up Brexit.. While the EU-UK relationship has been
acrimonious since the latter left the bloc, Russia’s invasion of
Ukraine has seen a rapprochement"

---
