# Week 43 

H2 Central: "Egypt to announce ambitious hydrogen strategy... Egypt
will present a new energy vision for green hydrogen at the next
climate conference in Sharm el-Sheikh this November"

---

Calling a function instead of passing the function pointer.. rookie
`multiprocessing` mistake. `Pool(func(arg1,arg2))` instead of
`Pool(func,args=(arg1,arg2))`.. Tsck, tsck, tsck.. Then programmer
wonders why everything is running serially not paralel. You paralized
the mufucka that's why.

---

H2 Central: "[H2] has potential as a source for electricity in our
homes: South Korea opened a hydrogen fuel cell plant last year—the
world’s largest—that will supply power to 250,000 households
annually... In Japan.. there are 400,000 residential fuel cell units
helping to power individual homes"

---

Wout net I could probably scrounge few dozen cores where I'm if I had
to. A board here a board there, an unused laptop... Hook it all up, run.

---

WION: "Man can't access $1.8mn Bitcoin as he forgot security question
answer"

---

That didn't take long

Al Jazeera: "Pakistan election commission disqualifies former PM Imran Khan"

---

Arab News: "Ex-PM Khan wins big in Pakistan by-election"

---

Sean Shamrock McShanahan is asking for 'moral clarity' on Ukraine on
Fox News. Is pushing a nuke armed adversary into destroying a country
'moral'?

---

Al Monitor: "Israel vexed as Australia reverses recognition of
'capital' Jerusalem"

---

H2 Fuel News: "American Airlines invests in Universal Hydrogen fuel
distribution company"

---

"@MazzucatoM

When [the] @WIRED ⁩piece was written, capitalism still had (weak)
legs. Now it’s looking for crutches. No better time than this to
rethink fundamentals"

---

Wired: "[2019] What.. infuriated [the economist] Mazzucato was the
prevailing narrative that [gov spending] cuts were necessary to boost
competitiveness and innovation... 'There was this belief that we
didn’t have European Googles and Facebooks because we didn’t subscribe
to Silicon Valley’s free market approach. It was just ideology: there
was no free market in Silicon Valley.'..

[Mazzucato researched the issue]. The development of Google’s search
algorithm, for instance, had been supported by a grant from the
National Science Foundation, a US public grant-awarding body... Many
other well-known US startups had been funded by the Small Business
Innovation Research programme, a public venture capital fund. 'It
wasn’t just early research, it was also applied research, early stage
finance, strategic procurement,' she says. 'The more I looked, the
more I realised: state investment is everywhere.'"

---

Not "paralize", parallelize

---

The trade data was 20 million rows, processed in a few mins, parallelized on multicore

---

"Select some code and translate it into other languages on the spot" \#Github

[[-]](https://twitter.com/GitHubNext/status/1509249187526832129)

---

"@mbeisen

far more than a 'reproducibility' crisis, science has a 'making claims
that exceed what the data show' crisis"

---

♪ You don't wanna fuck with a chigga like me ♪ 

---

That is legit gangsta Zee Ping Ping

---

Daam

"Former Chinese President Hu Jintao escorted out of party congress"

[Pic](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FfrSELXXoAIs3oO?format=jpg&name=small)

---

