# Week 15 

Hydrogen Central: "DOE announces $4 million for improving hydrogen
turbine performance and reducing hydrogen-based energy costs.. [DOE
announced] funding to advance the development of ceramic-based
materials to improve the efficiency of hydrogen-fueled turbines that
may one day be used in clean power plants.

Specifically, this R&D will enable operation at 150 degrees Celsius
(°C) higher than current CMC technology and 450 °C higher than
existing nickel-based materials allow, while reducing the amount of
cooling air required"

---

Hydrogen Central: "Loop Energy Outperforms Competition to be Selected
as Tevva Fuel Cell Supplier and Grows European Customer Base"

---

"Shell first customer of hydrogen pipeline at Rotterdam port"

[[-]](https://www.energate-messenger.com/news/221663/shell-becomes-first-customer-for-rotterdam-hydrogen-pipeline)

---

NewAtlas: "[Hyundai] has made a presentation at the Vertical Flight
Society's H2 Aero workshop to confirm that it's also bringing its
hydrogen expertise into the aviation world"

---

"@westaustralian

[Fortescue chairman] Andrew Forrest is considering investing in US
power stations and converting them to run on renewable energy as part
of his green hydrogen ambition"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/362QGr8)

---

Well if value of NFT art is its direct connection to the true
originator, then second, third resale would have no meaning, in
digital realm. With a real Picasso painting, the connection to the
originator is through the hard painting itself.

AFP: "NFT of first-ever tweet a dud in online auction. The highest
offer so far is just shy of $10,000 -- a year after it was bought for
2.9 million dollars."

---

Hot molten *magma*

---

Magma goes as high as 1600 C and is liquid so we know high temp allows
liquids. The sun surface is 5600 C. Easy experiment, take frozen lava
pieces, heat them up to 5600 and see if they become "plasma".

---

If the sun is not gaseous a lot of the theories on the Universe are
FUKKED

---

Calc assumed known distance between Sun and the Earth, known period of
revolution, the constant $G$ (already known from experiment, not
through reworking same equation). Sun's distance, volume could be
estimated optically or now through spacecraft having actually traveled
there. We then calculate mass, divide by volume, obtain density.

---

Water's density is 1 $g/cm^3$. Sun's estimated density 1.41 $g/cm^3$,
greater. So not less dense than solid or liquid. 

---

Oh yeeeaaa

[[-]](../../2022/04/sun-estimate.html)

---

Then if we can prove the sun is more dense, say than water, do we
sprove the Sun is not plasma?

---

I see, less dense..

"Like gases, plasmas..  are less dense than solids or liquids"

---

The sun is plasma some say

---

[facepalm]

PBS: "[2020] Astronomers still don’t know exactly what the sun is made
of.. It's not just the true nature of dark matter that eludes them; so
does the essence of the stars that speckle the sky and populate the
many galaxies throughout the cosmos. Surprisingly, no one knows the
stars' exact chemical composition: how many carbon, nitrogen and
oxygen atoms they have relative to hydrogen, the most common element"

[[-]](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/amp/science/astronomers-still-dont-know-exactly-what-the-sun-is-made-of)

---

They cld also be indirectly taking on the exam obsession, cram-school
stress situation in SoKo.

---

"'Squid Game' director says series poses questions on competitive
capitalism, [adds] "I've asked questions like who made this
competition system in our society, who drives us into a corner"

---

WION: "UK PM Johnson to receive three more fines for lockdown breaching parties"

---

Schroder, Putin, Chirac shooting the shit, hah

---

[Link](https://www.nbcnews.com/id/wbna8470933)

---

Neither was Chirac

"Neither Macron nor MLP are antagonistic enough against Putin"

---

WION: "Don’t send weapons to Ukraine, look for rapprochement between
NATO, Russia after war, says France's Le Pen"

---

CNBC: "After buying cheap Russian oil, India is now setting sights on its coal"

---

The Independent: "Russia has said there will be 'no more talk of a
nuclear-free Baltic' if Sweden and Finland join Nato"

---

"Russia is jamming GPS satellite signals in Ukraine, US Space Force says"

---

H2 View: "Swiss hydrogen plant to be fully operational next
year.. [the] project could be producing 300 tonnes of green hydrogen
annually in Western Switzerland by 2023. H-Tec Systems and Groupe E
said they have joined forces to develop the site that will help the
decarbonisation of freight transportation"

---

H2 View: "Californian hydrogen truck project being driven forward by
Michelin and partners... [the] hydrogen-powered regional-haul Class 8
truck, set to match the performance of a 15-litre diesel truck, is
currently under development in California as part of a state-supported
hydrogen mobility project"

---

H2 View: "10GW hydrogen project plans unveiled for Australia.. Dubbed
Desert Bloom Hydrogen, the $10.75bn 10GW site will be located in the
North Territory, Australia, and, once at full scale, will produce
~410,000 metric tonnes of green hydrogen annually with the help of a
series of modular 2MW hydrogen production units"

---

H2 View: "Airbus and Kawasaki Heavy Industries will work together in
order to develop a hydrogen fuelled ecosystem and build out it supply
chains into airports"

---

H2 View: "Infinite Blue Energy (IBE) and Boya Energy [agreed] to build
and develop a MEG HP1 hydrogen plant...This particular plant is
expected to produce up to four tonnes per day of green hydrogen to
meet the expected growth in hydrogen demand for medium and heavy-duty
transport"

---

H2 View: "Hydrogène de France (HDF Energy) has acquired a majority
stake in a NewGen project aiming to be the first industrial project to
produce green hydrogen in the Caribbean"

---

H2 View: "Two landmark hydrogen carriers are currently being developed
by Gen2 Energy and Sirius Design & Integration as part of a newly
inked contract. The duo said they are currently building the
190-meter-long vessels for the safe and effective transportation of
hydrogen to countries in Northern Europe.

Designed to use hydrogen in the propulsion systems of the vessel, the
ship is expected to leave a minimal carbon footprint and set the stage
for future hydrogen carrier developments"

---

H2 View: "Greenko, John Cockerill partner to develop India’s ‘largest’
green hydrogen electrolyser Gigafactory"

---

CNBC Pro: "Green hydrogen looks attractive right now, Bernstein
says [listing] its top stock picks"

[[-]](https://www.cnbc.com/2022/04/06/bernsteins-top-stock-picks-as-green-hydrogen-becomes-more-attractive.html)

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RFHvq-8np1o?start=0&end=289" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

RULES-BASED ORDER

WSJ: "U.K.'s Boris Johnson to Be Fined Over Lockdown Parties"

---

How about that base in West Africa? Gov says CH wants it, *Foreign
Policy* mag says they are lying.

---

WION: "Reports claim Chinese companies are looking for 'strategic'
pieces of land around the world close to US military installations
including around key sea lanes and straits"

---

Amel Larrieux - Sweet Misery \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/jHtOGgr0j6U)

---

*The Losers* (2010) good. 

---

*Moonfall* (2022) sucked.

---

I dont like TRS; proposed changes cld be good. At least ranked-choice
for Presidency

WSJ: "Marine Le Pen Proposes Overhaul of French Legislative, Electoral
Systems .. [by] apportioning at least two thirds of Parliament seats
according to representation rather than using the country’s current
two-round voting system"

---

This is better

Politico: "Mélenchon’s far-left voters become France’s reluctant kingmakers"

---

'Certain section of MSM' keeps harping about "left's major loss" in
the FR first round. Yet Le Pen took 1.1% more than Mélenchon but is
deemed as 'resurgent'. Gaslighters..

---

Aha.. Sarko has followers on the right.. working against Le Pen

Politico: "Sarkozy calls on supporters to back Emmanuel Macron"

---

'Integrating into a burning house'. Wow

MLK: "We have fought hard and long for integration.. and I know we
will win, but I have come to believe that we are integrating into a
burning house... I’m afraid that even as we integrate, we are walking
into a place that does not understand that this nation needs to be
deeply concerned with the plight of the poor and disenfranchised"

[[-]](https://amsterdamnews.com/news/2017/01/12/dr-martin-luther-king-jr-i-fear-i-am-integrating-m/)

---

Afro Celt Sound System - Rise Above It \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Z-rGmgpVBkY)

---

Tourists

WION: "Scientists find sunscreen lotion chemical accumulating in
Mediterranean seagrass"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Saudi Arabia’s hydrogen strategy to attract around $36B investment <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/renewablenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#renewablenergy</a><a href="https://t.co/hChGbekuVK">https://t.co/hChGbekuVK</a></p>&mdash; EnergyNews.biz (@EnergyNews_Biz) <a href="https://twitter.com/EnergyNews_Biz/status/1513163573274501130?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 10, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@EnergyNews_Biz

KEYOU unveils its first hydrogen-powered vehicles.. wo prototypes were
shown to demonstrate the technology’s versatility: an 18-ton truck and
a 12-meter city bus. Both types produce up to 210 kilowatts of
electricity by converting current diesel engines to hydrogen. The
company claims 500 kilometers of autonomy with a full tank"

---

H2 Energy News: "Complete conversion to hydrogen is possible in the
medium term.. Roland Harings, CEO of Aurubis, Europe’s largest copper
producer, has devised a contingency plan in the event of a gas
shortage"

[[-]](https://energynews.biz/complete-conversion-to-hydrogen-is-possible-in-the-medium-term/)

---

H2 View: "[With a new] process.. methane pyrolysis is used to produce
hydrogen. The input is methane (or natural gas)... Rather than CO2,
the process creates carbon black as a by-product. Unlike CO2, carbon
black is a solid product and hence easy to capture and use or
sequester. Carbon black in turn is used to produce the rubber for
tires amongst other applications, giving it resale value rather than
being a pure waste product"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Nevada Air Liquide hydrogen plant to produce fuel from
garbage gas"

---

H2 View: "Lhyfe and wpd have partnered to develop a large-scale green
hydrogen production facility which will harness 600MW of wind energy
to produce the clean energy carrier in Sweden"

---

H2 View: "Elogen and Sarralle have signed a green hydrogen generation
agreement that will see the clean energy carrier integrated into the
steel manufacturing sector"

---

"@EnergyNews_Biz

DOE gives $4M to increase the efficiency of hydrogen-fueled turbines"

---

PAK army is too involved in civilian politics. They "talk too much". I
remember it like yesterday Asia Minor right-wing fascist coup leader
Evren and theirs Zia ul-Haq shaking hands smiling to the cameras and
calling eachother brothers. Overly meddling mil types need to get a
soda and a smile and shut the phuck up. Go to your barracks muckers

---

The parliament choice on its own is democratic can't deny that. If IK
uses the event to mobilize supporters and come back stronger, great.

"Shehbaz Sharif elected as Pakistan’s new prime minister.. Election by
parliament comes after.. Imran Khan.. lost a vote of no confidence"

---

"Stranger things have happened". Nope.. I don't think so..

---

That guy almost became Labor Secretary BTW

---

😂

"@MorePerfectUS

.. In Long Beach, CA, on Friday workers challenged Starbucks' illegal
union busting campaign. 'If you hate Starbucks so much, why don’t you
go somewhere else?'  Schultz shot back"

---

Covid and high home prices likely the cause. Rates have been too low for too long..

"[T]here are 11.2 million RV-owning households in the U.S., an
increase of 62% over the past 20 years"

[[-]](https://www.rvtravel.com/study-shows-millions-americans-rvs/)

---

"Canada bans foreign homebuyers for two years in effort to cool
market.. Government under pressure after prices climbed by more than
20% last year, while rental rates have also been rising"

---

Around 2006/7 the speculation on real-estate was so excessive, I once
heard a real-estate reference on a military show, *The Unit*
(2006-2009). A housewife was talking about "flipping" houses, and was
actively involved in the market.. This was a show about the life of
government employees BTW.

---

[Link](../../2017/07/the-next-decade-friedman.md#three)

---

Inner/outer bickering is not a mere extension of a "post-WWII order".
China was on the winning side then (notice the seat at the UNSC), but
they are now the competition. After the fall of the Berlin Wall Russia
transitioned into free markets, democracy, yet they still had NATO
crawling up their ass. No the reason for the animosity is beyond the
so-called spread of freedom. Russia could be a bastion of democracy
tomorrow, they would still not be accepted as an ally.

---

The Times: "Finland and Sweden set to join Nato as soon as summer"

---

Al Jazeera: "Russia says it struck S-300 systems given to Ukraine by EU state"

---

Democracy Now: "End the Double Standard: U.S. Accuses Russia of War
Crimes While Continuing to Oppose the ICC"

[[-]](https://www.democracynow.org/2022/4/8/un_removes_russia_human_rights_council)

---

SOTU 2002

---

There was a lot of clapping for [that guy](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1CsRJd0stQfuMOOfXK0LNiuIQEctNVhuC)
too, remember him? What happened to his country?

---

These people just love clapping.. Festive muthafuckas

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The European Hydrogen Backbone (EHB) initiative is a group of European energy infrastructure operators which published a vision paper for a dedicated hydrogen pipeline infrastructure, based on repurposed natural gas pipelines in July 2020. <a href="https://t.co/bcuOiOYUJ7">https://t.co/bcuOiOYUJ7</a>. Read this!! <a href="https://t.co/SLpB2hs9BM">pic.twitter.com/SLpB2hs9BM</a></p>&mdash; Denis Jenkins (@JenkinsDenis) <a href="https://twitter.com/JenkinsDenis/status/1512948187102732297?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 10, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 View: "NuScale Power receives $15m investment to support its
innovative nuclear technology for clean hydrogen production"

---

H2 View: "Bloom Energy achieves first international deployment of its
electrolyser system"

---

H2 Fuel News: "A recent report in PV Magazine pointed to a green
hydrogen economy as Africa’s best opportunity for unity and unity for
Africa’s best opportunity to become powerful in renewable energy.  The
report showed that the potential from renewable power is great enough
that it could possibly help countries throughout the continent to
overcome the obstacles to using the sustainable resources that are
abundantly available there"

---

Mad Skillz \#bird

[[-]](https://twitter.com/DrChrisCombs/status/1512539769577824257)

---

\#MI7 \#cats

[[-]](https://mobile.twitter.com/alex_wohlrab/status/1512750950330642432)

---

Asking ppl for up and down vote on representatives, fine. Asking on
policy, not fine.

"In an unusual step, Mexico president asks voters if he should go"

---

Excessive love for immigration, wanting open-borders is likely a
deluded by-product of rabid liberalism with its focus on
individuality.. To them the immigrant is 'expressing his/her
individuality' by choosing to emigrate to a liberal country like the
US. They want to fight for the immigrant just like they fight for
people's inalienable rights abroad and topple governments in their
name (which actually benefit oil and arms manufacturers but hey it's
the thought that counts). However such free love creates a point of
contention with traditionally left-leaning labor as more people
increase competition for wages. Cesar Chavez, a Hispanic union leader
[did not support](../../2021/03/ship-of-fools.md#chavez) open borders.

---

How are unionizing efforts at Walmart? The Atlantic had an [article](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/06/how-walmart-convinces-its-employees-not-to-unionize/395051/)
on that in 2015.

---

BTW, Amazon is not the biggest in retail. Walmart is. 2018 retail sales,

Walmart	$387.66

Amazon.com  $120.93

The Kroger Co. $119.70

---

Great job. Leadership - it matters. 

The Guardian: "‘The revolution is here’: Chris Smalls’ union win sparks
a movement at other Amazon warehouses"

---

Someone needs to look into that Roth IRA trick Focker pulled off to evade taxes.

People in this Paypal mafia are bizarre self-serving weirdos.

---

Focker always looked like a jagoff apparently.

The other is the e-battery e-jagoff before cosmetic make-over.

[Pic](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FP_um-IWQAofztK?format=jpg&name=small)

---

🤣 

"Peter Thiel Calls Warren Buffett a sociopath"

---

Another advantage of ranked-choice system over the two-round approach;
TRS cuts off the next round candidates at two. With RCS the third
candidate close to the second (and the first) might have shot up with
the help of people's 2nd, 3rd level choices. It's unlikely but possible.

---

Leftist Mélenchon is at 3rd place, very close to 2nd (Le Pen) \#france \#firstRound

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/n8Kt2p97VGE?start=1410&end=2590" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

If there was media that went beyond fan-fiction we'd have received
this info, but sadly objective coverage is AWOL

---

They might be lulling you into a false sense of security, don't fall
for it. In the meantime UKR is underreporting its own military losses. 

"Kremlin spox has admitted high casualties so they must be losing"

---

WION: "China 'accelerating' nuclear programme over US threat"

---

Covid could be an attack; Look at China, they act like they are under
siege, have a lockdown in the entire city of Shangai? Why are they not
quitting zero-covid? No mRNA vax for them? Maybe they don't trust it,
suspect bio targeting. It looks like a war.

---

2019: India-Russia-China explored alternative to SWIFT payments.

2020: Covid.

🤔

---

CNBC: "War crime charges won't be enough to deter Putin — even as
evidence of Russian atrocities mounts"

---

New attacks in the ME are likely proxy attacks on US/NATO. As things
get worse between inners/outers, latest in Ukraine, places could be
targeted. The more the war lingers on, the more everyone will lose.

---

Al Monitor: "Middle East reeling from historically high food prices"

---

Hopefully no backdoor left in the hardware? Its RU tech after all

"Slovakia gives S-300 air defence system to Ukraine"

---

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/S8A3kv1pIsk?start=390&end=531" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---
