# Week 21 

---

H2 View: "CleanSign receives US DOE grant to develop an ultra-low NOx
hydrogen burner technology.. The US Department of Energy (DOE) has
provided a grant in order to support the development of an ultra-low
NOx hydrogen burner technology which will enable the adoption of
hydrogen fuel for industrial heating"

---

H2 View: "PESTECH International Berhad and Hydorgéne de France SA (HDF
Energy) have partnered to collaborate on green hydrogen production
from hydro power plants in Cambodia and Malaysia"

---

Australia to Singapore freight shipping takes about two
weeks. That is sweet.  Ship NH3, CH2, from there pipeline green gas to
Malaysia, Thailand, even Vietnam

---

Financial Review: "Global energy consultancy Wood Mackenzie estimates
the seaborne trade of hydrogen will grow to 150 million tonnes by
2050.. Europe alone is expected to import 10 million tonnes of
hydrogen by 2030. To meet that demand, ports are being specially
designed to feed into dedicated hydrogen infrastructure across the
Netherlands and into Germany"

[[-]](https://todayspaper.smedia.com.au/afr/shared/ShowArticle.aspx?doc=AFR%2F2022%2F05%2F23&entity=Ar03801&sk=DC5FB829&mode=text)

---

99 Percent.. The tech sounds like an uber H2 extractor; from methane,
*and* from ammonia? Both a steam reformer and a 'cracker'.

Science.org: "Proton ceramic electrochemical reactors can extract pure
hydrogen from gas mixtures by electrolytically pumping protons across
the membrane at 800°C, but as the extraction proceeds, temperature
gradients and entropic effects lead to efficiency drops. Clark et
al. developed a nickel-based glass-ceramic composite interconnect that
allowed for the design of a more complex reactor
pathway... Counterflowing streams balanced heat flows and maintained
stable operating conditions that enabled 99% efficiency of hydrogen
recovery"

[[-]](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.abj3951)

---

H2 View: "Mote to develop a new wood waste-to-hydrogen production facility in
California, US"

---

Company Site: "Mote is a spinout of the carbon removal effort at
Lawrence Livermore, where Mote CTO Joshuah Stolaroff previously led
the carbon capture program. Mote’s technology approach draws from the
Lab’s groundbreaking research and development"

---

Yahoo Finance: "Mote Enters Advanced Stage of Engineering Design for
Southern California Carbon-Negative Hydrogen Facility"

---

H2 View: "Emerson teams with Toyota Australia to create
commercial-grade hydrogen production, storage and refuelling
plants.. As Toyota continues to develop hydrogen refuelling
infrastructure in Australia, Emerson has been selected to provide its
advanced automation technology for the refuelling and production
plants"

---

H2 View: "Air Liquide hydrogen plant officially opened in North Las Vegas"

---

H2 View: "Successful pre-feasibility study could see Mauritania become
a hydrogen powerhouse"

---

Al Jazeera: "Davos is dead. [After] a pandemic and a cost of living
crisis, the people have no patience for the virtue signalling of the
Davos set"

---

It cld be helpful for the new actor.. No need to ask director what
s/he wants.. It's like 'look at the shot already there give me that
(with some reinterp surely)'.

---

Reshooting a movie isn't impossible; they do it all the time.
*Back to the Future* had a third of its scenes re-filmed
(with MJ Fox).

---

That's crazy. That will help turn crypto even more of a speculative
asset. Nearly all coins are incorrectly designed as currency, dont
want more people rushing into these things, creating fragility in the
system.

Politico: "FTX, a global crypto exchange led by 30 year-old
billionaire and political mega-donor Sam Bankman-Fried, has engaged in
a full-court press convincing the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
to sign off on its plan to let investors use borrowed money to trade
crypto around the clock"

---

She surely believes in that political choice, what I'm saying is the
system will pull people from extremes fitting a certain mold. The
pro-choice Catholic ends up in Dem leadership, the only Episcopalian
who is anti-abortion ends up as Fox News anchor. These actors will
heatedly argue over stuff that could've easily been handled (in fact
was) years ago. Centrist Democrats created that mess. They committed
the Original Sin. 

---

Abortion is the other hot-button issue Dems helped become this
entangled mess.. Likely not possible to be in Dem leadership and be
anti-abortion. NP is Catholic, but can't be against abortion and still
hold that seat. Not anymore.

---

🤣 🤣 Excommunicated by the Church.

"Pelosi denied Holy Communion by San Francisco archbishop for pushing
abortion rights"

---

That choice was indirectly forced on them by centrist Democrats bcz of
their need for [triangulation](2021/10/all-too-human.html#triangulation).
By trying to be too much like Reps on major issues, they pushed them
further right on social issues, creating deadlock. Dems are the sole
reason for the culture war. Need less bipartisanship, less unity,
more division on major stuff. After every school shooting remember,
it's Bill Clinton's fault.

"@brianklaas

.. Not solving [the gun issue] is a policy choice, made by Republicans"

---

Comments show that Kissinger, when he was liked or hated, was always
acting as a realist. Surely he was part of a lot of unfavorable
decisions; but he also negotiated an end to the Vietnam War.

---

The Telegraph: "Henry Kissinger: Ukraine must give Russia
territory.. Kissinger has urged the West to stop trying to inflict a
crushing defeat on Russian forces in Ukraine. The veteran US statesman
said that it would have disastrous consequences for the long term
stability of Europe"

---

"@DanDePetris

If you’re only interested in diplomacy when it doesn’t involve
concessions, then you really aren’t interested in diplomacy.

'Anne Appelbaum NYT: Offering the Russian president a face-saving
compromise will only enable future aggressions'"

---

"@DanielLDavis1

It is shocking how easily some pundits suggest the US go to war
against China over Taiwan, as @gen_jackkeane does... Losing 1000s of
US troops - and maybe losing US cities to nuclear strikes - doesn't
concern them"

---

H2 View: "Danish chemical processing company, Topsoe has announced its
intention to construct the world’s largest electrolyser plant with an
initial 500MW capacity, which can be scaled to 5GW, for Power-to-X
solutions"

---

H2 View: "Portugal is set to gain a new hydrogen blending project with Wärtsilä
partnering with Capwatt"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky vie for blue hydrogen hub
federal funding.. The states are competing to obtain a portion of $8
billion set aside for the H2 supply chain project"

---

H2 View: "MSC Group to incorporate hydrogen fuel cells into its
next-generation World Europa cruise ship"

---

H2 View: "Texas, US, continues to be a hotspot for hydrogen
technologies and innovation with Clean Energy Holdings, ING Americas,
and Equix, starting development of a 250MW green hydrogen project"

---

Ammonia can be combusted in turbines. Crack it and use H2 in alkaline
fuel-cells. Or in [Toyota combustion-engine cars](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2dgzKW8EKMc).

---

Brand new ship cost around.. $30 mil? Shipping itself is
cheap. Typical 1GW nuclear plant cost 6 **billion**, Fukushima level
output would cost 30 bil? Factor in a billion per GW to generate
ammonia from solar, you still won't reach that kind of cost. It's
crazy.

---

Australia-Japan: Largest ammonia ship can carry 87,000 m3. Ammonia
energy density is 4332 kwh/m3, round trip from Australia-Japan takes
two months. 1 ship continuously moving back and forth can supply to
0.3 GW equivalent, like a pipeline.

30 ships will give 7.7 Gigawatts. Better than one Fukushima.

---

It's possible to create a 'virtual pipeline' through shipping. Ships
constantly go back and forth carrying clean fuel is like a pipeline of
sorts. There is a constant flow within a period of time, like
mentioned before we can compute a Gigawatt measure for that. Compute
annual Watt-hour, divide by 365*24, get Wattage.

---

WION: "Climate change grips Europe: Tornado in Germany, heatwave in Spain"

---

On H2 storage \#h2book

[[-]](../../2022/06/the-h2-revolution-alvera.html#storage)

---

Many fossil players are *also* in the H2 game but that is a good
thing. That means the switch to green energy can be faster, with their
input.  Green fuels are great, there is something in it for
everyone. People will get cheap energy, faster, fossil players build
on their gas/liquid handling expertise and keep making money, and
there will be new players who can innovate and expand, hire.

---

The spread of H2 infrastructure needs to be official left
policy. Renewable gas based tech will deliver cheap energy to people
from all walks of life, especially the poor. 

---

Even with limitless energy we'd need green fuels as an energy
carrier.. We cant have a fusion reactor in every car, in every home,
so cars would need a fuel in the tank that was generated by
fusion. From fusion reactor to homes something needs to be piped in,
fast, efficiently.  That something is still H2.

---

[Link](https://youtu.be/oLGDKVJlqL0?t=42)

---

Mass, pressure, heat, kinetic energy; that is where it's at.

No bitch magnets, bitch electricity, bitch lasers

---

"Nick Hawker might have solved the nuclear fusion equation, leading to
‘unlimited’ clean energy.. There’s a new fusion kid on the block. His
name is Nick Hawker and he carries a very big gun – 22m long. It fires
a projectile at around 7km/s and aims to hit a bullseye only two atoms
wide.

Fusion, of course, is nothing new. The sun has been at it for the last
few billion years and is still going strong, producing vast amounts of
energy..  The fundamental fact [is].. that fusing two hydrogen nuclei
together is hard. They are both positively charged particles and
therefore mutually repulsive...

In contrast, Hawker and his crew have come up with a radically
different approach to pulling off fusion and “getting it done” sooner
too. “Projectile fusion” as practised at First Light, in comparison
with “magnetic confinement fusion” is simpler, cheaper...

Hawker has taken the concept of the pistol shrimp – or the shrimp’s
claw – and converted it into an extremely long pistol, a light gas
gun, with a barrel 22m long, that propels a projectile at around 7km/s
into a cube of fusion fuel, turning it into thermal plasma, which is
so dense that it approaches the density of the core of the sun. When
the projectile hits the outer layer of the cube it produces a shock
wave bubble – just like the shrimp – that then compresses the fusion
fuel and under huge pressures and very high temperature for a
billionth of a second causes ions to fuse and release energy"

[[-]](https://edition.independent.co.uk/edition/uk.co.independent.issue.190522/156388/index.html)

---

Sound Stylistics - The Crisis Generator \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/DxouLqLMpJk)

---

WION: "Villagers in Russia's Siberia have spotted a giant crater that
is sinking and appearing to pull in everything around it"

---

Franco Micalizzi - Running Away From Jerzy \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/MLI4mJNNM4s)

---

Pretty cheap for life-long visa access.

Everything is for sale these days

Al Monitor: "Fearing visa hassles could cost him his job in Dubai
while an economic collapse had dashed any homecoming options, Lebanese
executive Jad splurged around $135,000 on a new citizenship for
himself and his wife. Within a month of making the payment last year,
the 43-year-old businessman received a small package in his
mailbox. Inside were two navy blue passports from the Caribbean island
nation of Saint Kitts and Nevis -- his ticket to visa-free access to
more than 150 countries, including in Europe"

---

That El Salvador President, "Bukake", is in love with Bitcoin, and
crypto. Of course he is a rich guy, a "supply sider".. They want their
*stash* not to depreciate. That's what it is all about.

---

"@Nouriel

Crypto Meltdown Exposes Hollowness of Its Libertarian Promise - WSJ
Unable to displace the dollar, crypto became just another asset
without traditional asset markets’ guardrails"

---

[Link](https://youtu.be/ReSGy26GOvM?t=17)

---

Talking code, or code-friendly descr is always better then verbal
descriptions, "if it goes up, this goes down, if down, other up" ???
WTF?

What is the angle of the dangle?

---

Some quant-fu uses moving averages, "when close is over MA200 bull, if
not bear" sort of stuff.

---

Tried it - meh; "A drawdown with at least a 20% fall in it" could capture it
better perhaps.. 

"When the market is down 20% for at least a two-month period. 'If
somebody were to say that we were in a bear market in the S&P 500,
that means that we were down 20% from peak to trough,' says
[expert]. 'Once it crosses 20%, you stay 20% or you go further
down. You’re just in a bear market'"

[[-]](https://time.com/nextadvisor/investing/bull-bear-markets-explained/)

---

What is the definition of bear market anyway?

---

Yep. Don't [jog](../../2010/04/new-evolution-diet-devany.html) like a
dumbass..  HIT means spurts of high activity, not bouncing up and down
rhythmically on bitch Nike shoes

---

\#Brendborg

"Living at high altitude and getting vaccinated both help you live
longer - but the most influential factor is exercise..he recommends
high intensity interval training (HIIT workouts)" 

---

From Nicklas Brendborg, *Jellyfish Age Backwards*.

"People who take multivitamins also seem to die earlier - perhaps
because of the iron in them. Iron, Brendborg says, 'works almost like
fertiliser for the growth of bacteria'. This could also explain why
blood donors tend to live longer, as they get rid of excess iron"

---

WION: "UK man dumps wife, runs off with Ukrainian refugee who moved in
few days ago"

---

WION: "Ukraine's EU membership '15 or 20 years' away, says French
minister"

---

RU appears to have good intel; not just satellite, SIGINT, but leaks
from UKR mil as well. When the "sniper king" Wali went to UKR, he says
nearly got his ass blown up by tanks on first mission, it sounded like
they specifically targeted his area, which means knew he was
there. Right afterwards RU declared him dead (nearly true). My guess
is Wali's location was leaked and RU went after him - for a quick
propaganda win. Now, that kind of intel indicates HUMINT; UKR mil is
leaking like a sieve. Maybe that's not surprising, UKR could have a
lot of RU symphatizers.

---

They took Popasnaya, now moving ahead to close the small pocket

Al Jazeera: "Russia bombards Severodonetsk from all sides"

---

You fight artillery with artillery. Also with airbombing, but Ukraine
does not air superiority, Russia does. They can take out rival
artillery units from the air, if not overpower the ones on the ground
with their own ground units (have better numbers, and their supply
line is closer and more secure, right over the border whereas
Ukraine's logistic situation is harder).

"How do you fight against artillery?"

---

HyFlyer.. Great name

H2 Fuel News: "The HyFlyer project is a plan for the decarbonization of medium-range
small passenger aircraft powered by hydrogen fuel cells.. HyFlyer I is
a demonstration of powertrain technology that will replace
conventional propeller aircraft piston engines.. The HyFlyer II
project is the next phase that will involve the first certifiable
hydrogen electric powertrain"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Green hydrogen hubs to replace German liquid natural gas
terminals"

---

Snam CEO on H2 pipelines

[[-]](2022/06/the-h2-revolution-alvera.md#pipelines)

---

"@amitakshatriya

India also has not developed an extensive natural gas network so far,
which is a blessing in disguise. As it would now be possible to build
gas pipeline grid which will first transport natural gas and will
eventually be used to transport first blue & then green hydrogen"

---

Not on Mars apparently

"[Perovskite] is also expected to be an abundant mineral in other
terrestrial planets larger than Mars...[it should be] an important
constituent in other terrestrial planets if their rocky mantles
contain substantial volumes above ~23 GPa. Venus, being similar in
size and mass to Earth, should also host Mg-perovskite as its most
abundant mineral phase. The base of Mars’ mantle, on the other hand
[has lower pressure]"

[[-]](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/320967307_Perovskite_in_Earth's_deep_interior)

---

This perovskite is a fantastic material, abundant too

---

Hydrogen Central: "H2 Clipper, Inc., an aerospace and alternative
energy company developing hydrogen-powered airships and end-to-end
hydrogen infrastructure solutions, announces that the company signed a
collaboration agreement with the Foundation for the Development of New
Hydrogen Technologies (Foundation), located in Aragon, Spain"

---

H2 View: "Egypt's current green hydrogen pipeline projects will amount
to 11.62GW and 1.57 million tonnes of green hydrogen, once the
projects come online before 2035, according to Rystad research"

---

"@xtrends

Last week when SPX closed at 4025, I said the market would take a huge
dump this week, SPX cratered over 200 handles this week. The sell off
was somewhat controlled and muted. Dip buyers are still active. There
is absolutely no capitulation. Gonna get a lot uglier than I thought"

---

That's funny if true

"@ByYourLogic

[B]usiness leaders pay me $5,000 an hour as a sleep coach. I spend hours
teaching them how to hold their breath until they faint so they can
rest no matter what is raging in their minds"

---

"@MetreSteven

Investors have been buying the dip hoping the Fed will soon
capitulate. Wait until they realize the Fed is serious this time"

---

Reagan was pro-choice, made abortion legal in California, then he
changed his tune to appeal to evangalicals

---

TDB: "Arkansas Guv Shies Away From Extreme Abortion Ban He Signed"

---

All finite-amount crypto is essentially right-wing. Money invariably
has politics associated with it. Crypto proponents think they can
sidestep all that with 'some bits', but that is extremely naive; money
never existed disconnected from a social order.. Gold was *made* into
money through kings (they demanded taxes be paid to them in currency
made from gold, silver, creating demand for those currencies).  Such
metals had no intrinsic value, at least nothing at the level that
primes them to be **the** money.

---

It's not surprising the ultra-rich like the current incarnation of
digital cash, "crypto" - they are based on finite amount money base,
so rich ppl figure if "I put my money in this thing it won't
depreciate it will maintain its value through scarcity".

---

NYT: "All Those Celebrities Pushing Crypto Are Not So Vocal
Now.. Enthusiasm for crypto from Hollywood celebrities and top
athletes reached a fever pitch over the past year. On social media,
during interviews and even in music videos, they portrayed virtual
currency as a world with its own hip culture and philosophy — one that
was more inclusive than traditional finance and that involved the
chance to make loads of money.The Super Bowl was nicknamed the “Crypto
Bowl” this year because so many ads — which cost as much as $7 million
for 30 seconds — featured the industry, several of them starring
boldface names.But after investors watched hundreds of billions of
dollars disappear in a sell-off this month, those famous boosters now
face intensifying criticism that they helped drive vulnerable fans to
invest in crypto without emphasizing the risks. Unlike clothes or
snacks or many other products hawked by celebrities, the crypto market
is volatile and rife with scams"

[[-]](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/17/business/media/crypto-gwyneth-paltrow-matt-damon-reese-witherspoon.html)

---

Baby-formula from Germany hauled to US on military planes.. Something
went broke with this 'free-market' and 'globalization'.

---

"Operation Causeway was the U.S. plan to invade Taiwan.. Had it
proceeded, Causeway would have involved 302,000 men of the US Army and
100,000 men of the US Marine Corps, and would have started with the
landings of amphibious landings on the southern coast of [Taiwan]...

However the more the plan was examined the more it was realised that
this would be a very different battleground to the flat plains of
northern France [where another amphibious landing was done, in
Normandy]"

[[-]](https://grahamthomasauthor.wordpress.com/2020/06/20/operation-causeway/)

---

Haha US itself planned the invasion of Taiwan once during WWII but
decided against it, judging the invasion would be too hard

---

Taiwan is not Ukraine. Taiwan has a moat (and more)

---

Ukraine is not Afghanistan. AFG terrain is much more hostile (see the
list of empires getting their ass kicked there)

---

PZ gets some things right; UKR war is taking place on flatlands, and
is mostly an artillery war which favors the Russians.

---

P. Zeihan says there are 9 paths for invading Russia, they always try
to fortify them. But then says RU has to invade Poland. I dont think
that's in the cards. Sure feeling less threat from nearby regions
would matter to them but at what cost.

(Orig map orientation was screwed up, pic rotated, the text is off)

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FTYUb8PX0AA4P_5?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Here is the link for collated excerpts from the Alvera book again

[[-]](../../2022/06/the-h2-revolution-alvera.html)

---

H2 Fuel News: "Aramco and [Thai energy company] PTT team up on green
and blue hydrogen"

---

H2 View: "Australian energy company, Woodside, announced that it has
officially changed its name to Woodside Energy Group Ltd. Previously
Woodside Petroleum Ltd., the name change reflects the company’s recent
sustainable efforts, with significant ventures into green hydrogen"

---

H2 View: "Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP) have announced a
proposal to build a dedicated artificial island in the North Sea, for
large-scale green hydrogen production, called ‘Brintø’. Brintø, Danish
for ‘Hydrogen Island’, would provide a significant contribution
towards Denmark’s ambitious hydrogen strategy, with its ability to
supply up to 1 million tonnes of green hydrogen per year once at full
capacity of 10GW..

CIP have suggested that Brintø could be operational by 2030, and could
prove to be a vital step in securing green energy supply for
Europe. The hydrogen produced via Power-to-X will use offshore wind
electricity and will be hoped to be exported to countries such as,
Germany, the Netherlands, and Belgium using pipelines"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Alstom, PKN ORLEN sign agreement to introduce hydrogen
trains and infrastructure to Poland"

---

H2 View: "Six African countries formerly launched the Africa Green
Hydrogen Alliance, which aims to make the continent a frontrunner in
the green hydrogen development race. The Alliance, formed by Kenya,
South Africa, Namibia, Egypt, Morocco, and Mauritania, intend to
accelerate the transition from fossil fuels, which hopes to open
access to clean and affordable energy supplies"

---

H2 View: "Germany, Denmark, Belgium, and the Netherlands partner to
generate 20GW of green hydrogen in the North Sea by 2030"

---

H2 View: "Renault to relaunch its Scenic with hydrogen powertrain"

---

Their combustion engine is "robust to hydrogen fuel
impurities". Spread of this tech will increase options for transport;
can get fuel through ammonia, LH2, LOHC, as well as pipeline, CH2...

H2 View: "Cummins: We need decarbonisation solutions for the mobility
industry, and hydrogen internal combustion engines are a practical
option. Hydrogen engines are a breakthrough technology essential to
reaching Destination Zero. They are low cost, highly efficient,
perform like diesel in aggressive duty cycles, are robust to hydrogen
fuel impurities, are durable in extreme operating environments, and
are versatile"

---

Clearly their product is based on alkaline fuel-cell tech, which means
it will not need high-purity H2 to function. Their target is customers
who need renewable gas based heating which is potentially huge.

H2 View: "Alkaline Fuel Cell Power achieves first major millstone for
innovative hydrogen technology.. [and] is now believed to be working
to towards commercialising a 4kW micro-combined heat and power
(Micro-CHP) system. The.. system could be a major technology for the
hydrogen industry and is a crucial step in the creation of the
Company’s manufacturing capabilities"

---

How strawberries lose mass after dehyd never ceases to amaze..  1 kilo
of the stuff, gone, down to mere dried slice. Where did it all go?
Strawb is 91% water. That's where..

---

That is genius; put all ingredients in raw, then the whole thing is
cooked as closed, that cooking kill germs inside, and can be sure no
more will enter until the can is opened.

"Canned chicken is pressure cooked right in the can in a process called
retort cooking".

---

"@gnoble79

'The role of a bear market is to return capital to its rightful owner.'"

---

Great news. More leftists in the Congress.

Politico: "De Blasio announces run for open New York congressional seat"

---

FT: "Albanese set to be first Australian Labor prime minister in nine years"

---

Where is Soros?

CNBC: "Traders are lining up to short the British pound with a
possible recession on the horizon"

---

WION: "China quietly purchasing large amounts of low-priced Russian oil"

---

What was that maxim..? Two countries with McDonalds never fought? Or
ones in the same supply chain never fought..? Something like that

CNBC: "Goodbye, American soft power: McDonald’s exiting Russia after 32 years
is the end of an era"

---

FT: "Italy’s transport unions are observing a one-day strike, in part
to protest against the government’s military support for Ukraine and
to call for an immediate ceasefire in the conflict"

---

Lots of displaced tech talent; somebody's loss is another's win

Al Monitor: "Israel high-tech sector looks to Ukraine, Arab world to
address labor shortage"

---

CNBC: "Russia will shut off gas to Finland from Saturday, Finnish
energy provider says"

---
