# Week 18

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">India &amp; Germany sign key Climate, Green Energy &amp; Hydrogen pacts as PM Modi visits Berlin <a href="https://t.co/H3t6Of0UaL">https://t.co/H3t6Of0UaL</a></p>&mdash; Republic (@republic) <a href="https://twitter.com/republic/status/1521153528907157504?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 2, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@Newslogic_in

India Germany Ink Pact On Green Hydrogen During Modi's Berlin Visit"

---

Modi - Scholz press briefing, talked about green H2 cooperation,
creation of green H2 taskforce, and 10 billion euros aid from DE to IN
for green tech.

---

European H2 Backbone - Updated Version

[PDF](https://gasforclimate2050.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/EHB-A-European-hydrogen-infrastructure-vision-covering-28-countries.pdf)

---

FGSZ: "[T]he European Hydrogen Backbone (EHB) initiative presents an
updated version of its vision for a dedicated hydrogen transport
infrastructure across Europe. The group proposes a hydrogen network of
39,700km by 2040, with further growth expected after 2040. This grid
connects 21 European countries"

---

Bloomberg: "Kuwait Seeks to Invest $750 Million in Pakistan
Projects.. [A Kuwait company].. and Pakistan [KIC] have applied for a
digital bank license and proposed a hydrogen plant and two smart
cities"

---

Upstream: "BP is making steady progress with plans to produce
renewable fuels and green hydrogen at a former oil refinery site in
Kwinana, Western Australia... [Justin Nash, Senior Mgr says] 'We're
targeting some of the best use cases for hydrogen, and that's places
where it’s used today, industrial processes feedstock for chemicals,
opportunities for decarbonised heat and energy that's currently being
fulfilled by natural gas,” Nash explained. Transport, heavy duty long
haul municipal fleets, waste trucks, community buses are all potential
transport demand sources. And then with Kwinana’s access to fantastic
pipeline infrastructure will have the opportunity to support WA’s
target of 10% hydrogen blending [in the state’s gas grid] by 2030'"

---

Ideally homeowner bought home to live in, for a while. But then homes
become "financial assets", expectations change.

---

That was shared as a 'pessimistic forecast' because it would be, for
homeowners?

Fin Anchor, ABC Oz: "Reserve Bank put out a forecast stating that if
they were to lift rates by 2%, then it could lead a 15% in drop on
property prices over a few years"

---

Nice amateurish film, enjoyable scenery, with some scifi effects. 

THE GRID - Sci-Fi Short Film

[[-]](https://youtu.be/nqMd_HYqXG4)

---

"Bourbon and beans, an explosive mix". Noted. \#stvff

---

That guy totally looks like Saddam \#stvff

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FRruCr0WUAAbSU9?format=png&name=small)

---

Hadn't seen *S Trek V The Final Frontier* before.. Not bad for its
time. \#stvff

---

"Buck Sexton - even porn stars think his name is fake" - Gutfeld. That's funny

---

Taking back control

"UK set to impose direct rule on British Virgin Islands as premier
faces cocaine charges"

---

That crowd is bunch of empire- self-serving gaslighters. They dont
care about liberty, or free speech, all they care about is gaining
influence to do their weirdo shit.

Caitlin Johnstone: "MintPress News happens to have published critical
journalism about PayPal itself in the past, like the articles it
published in 2018 by Whitney Webb documenting the way shady
PayPal-linked billionaires Peter Thiel and Pierre Omidyar have
advanced the interests of the US empire and facilitated imperial
narrative control, or [how] from 2016 on how the company blocks
Palestinians from opening accounts while showing no such bias against
illegal Israeli settlers"

[[-]](https://caitlinjohnstone.com/2022/04/29/paypal-blocks-multiple-alternative-media-figures-critical-of-us-empire-narratives/)

---

NYT: "[Reshare, Thiel interview, 2017] Even if you appointed a whole
series of conservative Supreme Court justices, I’m not sure that Roe
v. Wade would get overturned.. I don’t know if people even care about
the Supreme Court"

[[-]](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/fashion/peter-thiel-donald-trump-silicon-valley-technology-gawker.html)

---

US National News: "Leaked Supreme Court document suggests vote will
overturn Roe v. Wade, Politico reports"

---


Arab Nationalism could be a threat for France I guess through Algeria,
Morocco, so they wanted it 'handled' through Israel.

The National News: "Israel had long wanted a nuclear weapon of its
own, but was isolated diplomatically in the years after its founding
in 1948. But by the mid-1950s, that had changed. Western powers were
so concerned at the rise of Arab nationalism, and in particular the
leadership of Gamal Abdel Nasser, that they conspired in 1956 to use
Israel to attack Egypt and bring down Nasser. That plan failed, but it
began a long association between the West and Israel.

It was France, in particular, enraged by the failure in 1956, that
began building Israel’s bomb. By the end of the 1950s, there were
hundreds of French scientists and technicians living in Dimona,
teaching Israelis how to master the nuclear fuel cycle..

In the years since, the Israelis openly lied to the United States
during inspections, supported brutal regimes like Apartheid South
Africa in order to get its hands on materials, conducted test
explosions in violation of international treaties, spied on allies and
censored the press at home. When a disgruntled technician, Mordechai
Vanunu, told the world Israel had nuclear weapons in 1986, he was
drugged by Israeli agents, kidnapped and jailed for nearly 20 years
after a secret trial"

[[-]](https://www.thenationalnews.com/opinion/who-gave-israel-a-nuclear-bomb-1.10355)

---

China-Pakistan nuke share is widely known. France-Israel rel is
interesting.. What did FR have to gain from that?

---

From an earlier share on nuke tech; Russia gave nuke tech to China and
India. One viewpoint seeks clues for RU-CH rivalry, but when RU could
withhold one of the most destructive weapons ever invented, they
didn't even blink an eye and chose to share - just gave it away to
those two countries. They wanted strong neighors IMO to stand together
with towards the outside, rather than weak neighbors they could lord
over inside. RU,CH,IN, likely feel more threathened from outsiders
than eachother.. That nuke share needs to figure into every analysis
on the region.

[[-]](2017/07/the-next-decade-friedman.md#nuketech)

---

WION: "Russia's foreign minister says May 9 not a relevant date for
Ukraine operations"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">A new gigawatt-scale electrolyser manufacturing plant will be developed in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Texas?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Texas</a>, US, to support the creation of a 60GW <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> hub. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> <a href="https://t.co/uc8m343nwk">https://t.co/uc8m343nwk</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1519606935456292865?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 28, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 News: "Canadian Aboriginal community explores hydrogen fuel plant deal"

---

H2 Fuel News: "The US Department of Energy’s Loan Program has issued a
$504.4 million conditional debt financing commitment for what would
become the largest green hydrogen production and storage facility in
the world... The H2 hub.. will be located in Delta, Utah."
 
---

H2 News: "MOL Group has revealed a new agreement with Plug Power
aiming to develop one of Europe’s largest-capacity green hydrogen
production facilities in Hungary"

---

H2 News: "Plug Power joint venture to develop a 15 tonne per day green
hydrogen production project in the US.. A joint venture has been
established between Plug Power and Olin Corporation"

---

H2 View: "Australian Government commits $288m to hydrogen hubs in
Tasmania and South Australia"

---

F24: "Extreme heatwave scorches India’s wheat harvest, snags export plans"

---

"@germany_works

Bringing together 40 international companies and institutions, the
AquaVentus project will feed the hydrogen produced on island Helgoland
into a special H2 network on the mainland via a pipeline"

---

"@tixhonjm

[Elliott Company] Designs Compressor for Gas Pipeline Transport
Including Hydrogen Blends Up to 50%"

---

"@CHEManager_EU

@Shell is the first company to sign an agreement to use the
\#HyTransPort #hydrogen pipeline in the Netherlands that will run from
\#Maasvlakte in the @PortOfRotterdam to Pernis"

---

"PetroChina building China’s first dedicated pipeline for green
hydrogen The six-kilometre line will have a throughput capacity of
10,000 cubic metres per hour"

[[-]](https://www.upstreamonline.com/energy-transition/petrochina-building-china-s-first-dedicated-pipeline-for-green-hydrogen/2-1-1207106)

---

<img width="340" src="https://hydrogeneast.uk/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/NR-22007a_0.png"/>

"SGN has secured funding to deliver a nationally strategic hydrogen
transmission and storage project. In early April, it announced that it
had received £29.9mn from Ofgem and gas distribution companies,
allowing it to test the use of high-pressure pipelines for hydrogen
transmission and storage as an option for net zero heating. The
project, based at Grangemouth in Scotland, will be delivered in
partnership with INEOS"

---

"@12TOZERO1

Some question why we need hydrogen pipelines for offshore renewables
harvesting. Transport costs have been analysed by NREL and hydrogen
pipeline is 1/8 th the cost of electricity cable"

---

Woke went broke - again

"'Batwoman' canceled at The CW"

---

Al Monitor: "Iran-Saudi tensions near end, Iraq PM says"

---

The person in charge looks like another one of those "regime change
Democrats". I bet she is woke and likes battery-electric cars.

"The Department of Homeland Security is setting up a Disinformation
Governance Board to try to counter the spread of false
information. The board will focus on disinformation coming from
Russia"

---

That Levy guy too - one shady fuck. He gave bad advice on Libya, and
dabbled in Syrian affairs too according to some.

---

Bottom of his heart.. How **sweet**.

Wikileaks: "Sarkozy is the French politician who most supports the
role of the United States in the world.. His nickname is 'Sarkozy the
American' and his affinity for America is authentic and comes from the
bottom of his heart"

[[-]](https://wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/06PARIS5974_a.html)

---

Sarko was little stupid, an odd duck.. Certainly no Chirac. After his
term he was dragged through the mud quite a bit, had the crap beaten
out of him.

---

He forgot his country's future lies with the inner alliance, not
meddling outers, and went ahead and helped topple the guy who could be
useful for him / Europe, soon after that very same leader had declared
intensions of opening up Libya and sign energy deals with Europe.

"Sarkozy played a role in Libya's destruction"

---

How does liveuamap determine occupied regions during coflicts? "[It]
has a method to harvest, select, and curate social media
information... Liveuamap assumes control by drawing a polygon around
events and, given the large number of social media events it contains,
is able to generate areas of control"

[PDF](https://acleddata.com/acleddatanew/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/ACLED_Syria-Map-Methodology_Version2_3.2019-1.pdf)

---

The RU advance is reverse-engineered from Liveuamap images; given two
known pixel-coordinate mappings, can calculate lat,lon from image. In
small areas it's close enough.

---

```python
import simplegeomap as sm, json

clat,clon=48.70665, 37.5; zoom = 0.27

ukr = json.loads(open("ukraine1.json").read())
ru = np.array(ukr['front']['20220430'])
sm.plot_countries(clat,clon,zoom,outcolor='lavenderblush')
sm.plot_line(ru,color='red',linestyle='dashed')
for city in ['donetsk','luhansk','volnovakha','lyman']:
   c = sm.find_city(city,"ukraine")[0]
   plt.text(float(c[9]),float(c[8]),c[1])
```

Yea.. not looking good; Lyman is nearly inside that front line

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FRp3hwRWQAAS9k4?format=png&name=small)

---

Just saw Ukranian guy on Al Jazeera, from the town Lyman near RU
front, said he heard from ppl next town mil gave up, so the advance is
now coming for him

---

Al Jazeera: "Eurozone inflation hits new high as growth slows amid
Ukraine war"

---
