# Week 50 

Al Monitor: "China and Saudi Arabia shy away from defense deals during Xi's visit"

---

Al Monitor: "Saudi Arabia, China sign over 40 deals during Xi's visit"

---

The Guardian: "Heatwave sweeps South America as Argentina hits 43C"

---

H2 Central: "Rio Tinto and Fortescue in talks on green hydrogen to
replace fossil fuels... Rio Tinto chief executive Jakob Stausholm has
contacted Fortescue Metals Group chairman Andrew Forrest to see if the
two mining heavyweights can find common ground on green hydrogen and
its potential to replace fossil fuels"

---

Financial Review: "[After the $4 billion acquisition of CWP
Renewables] Andrew Forrest .. through private interests.. immediately
becomes Australia’s largest owner of renewable energy assets, with 2.4
gigawatts of wind, solar and firming projects either operating or in
the late stages of construction, and a 20 gigawatt pipeline of
long-term projects, including CWP’s near-to-medium development
pipeline of 5 gigawatts"

---

Tesla Warranty Fraud

[[-]](https://gotmusked.com/content/warranty-fraud/)

---

*13 Hours* - fine Michael Bay work. Intl rel, military, based on true
story - my favorite kind of movie these days.

---

The Independent: "Russia still set on 'liberating' annexed portions of
Ukraine, says Kremlin"

---

Better to transmit clean fuels - [efficient](2019/03/wirespipes.html) and clean.

NPR: "Keystone pipeline spills in Kansas, dirtying creek .. Mill Creek
flows into the Little Blue River, which flows into the Big Blue
River. That, in turn, feeds Tuttle Creek Reservoir near Manhattan and
ultimately, the Kansas River"

---

Africa, US, RU map - added Angola, Togo, Nigeria.

[[-]](2022/12/ru-africa.html)

---

They lived in the Basque countryside? Of course they did. TN readers
would understand why.

"[Rod Whitaker, whose pen-name was Trevanian] married the former Diane
Brandon, and they had four children: sons Lance and Christian, and
daughters Alexandra and Tomasin. They lived for years in the Basque
countryside of France"

---

Wow.. Mutti dropped a bombshell here

"Merkel: Minsk agreements were meant to 'give Ukraine time'.. German
ex-Chancellor Angela Merkel reveals that in 2014, the Minsk agreements
aimed to give Ukraine time to get stronger and for NATO to increase
its support to the country in the face of Russia"

[[-]](https://english.almayadeen.net/news/politics/merkel:-minsk-agreement-attempted-to-give-ukraine-time)

---
