# Week 14 

---

H2 View: "Yara to boost the hydrogen industry with the creation of [a]
carbon-free ammonia fuel bunker network"

---

H2 View: "Lidl puts 98 green hydrogen-powered warehouse trucks into
operation in France"

---

H2 View: "Nel continues to back hydrogen refuelling infrastructure
with orders in Poland and Canada"

---

H2 Fuel News: "The research team [at Cornell] developed a nitrogen-doped,
carbon-coated nickel anode for use as a catalyst."

---

Sri Lanka has massive solar potential with mad DNI. They could be
generating renewable fuel instead they are in queues waiting for
fossil. 

---

They had a seperatist group Tamil Tigers.. A coworker of mine was from
Sri Lanka and Tamil Tiger symphatizer. The group was defeated later, I
looked it up now, in 2009, with 40,000 ethnic Tamils dead throughout
the conflict. Is Sri Lanka getting some karma blowback here?

---


"How Sri Lanka Has Fallen Into Darkness..

April is the hottest month in Sri Lanka. Just unbelievably hot, like a
fever that doesn’t break until the rains. Heat makes everybody cranky,
irritable, and I suppose violent. April is the cruelest month, as they
say.  This is the worst April in Sri Lanka’s history. I don’t mean
that worse things haven’t happened—we’ve had pogroms, a tsunami,
various insurrections, a good thirty years of war—I just mean this
catastrophe is happening to all of Sri Lanka, all at once. No one is
safe from this disaster. It affects every single home.  At a very
fundamental level, the island has just fallen into the sea...

Why did this happen? Many reasons, and one family (the Rajapaksas).
Sri Lanka was an ancient irrigation civilization and in modern times
50% of our electricity comes from water (hydro). However, after
‘liberalizing’ in the 1980s we stopped building anything
useful. Instead we built giant generators that burn fucking oil for
the rest of our needs. This has been a farce forever. Now it’s a
tragedy.  Now we’re run out of oil for this generator, foreign capital
flows have dried up, and the whole thing has been managed
abysmally. The ruling family’s elder brother ran up the credit card a
decade ago and now the younger brother is paying off those commercial
bank loans instead of providing for our families.  And so the entire
country has blackouts, every day, for hours at a time. The entire
country waits in petrol and diesel queues"

[[-]](https://indica.medium.com/how-sri-lanka-has-fallen-into-darkness-9e2d76f071bd)

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FPDNAgbX0Ao5YMC?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

A good summary on how the world soured on the dollar, bit by bit, even
the Europeans (after DJT Iran deal cancellation).

[[-]](https://inews.co.uk/news/long-reads/russia-china-us-dollar-undermine-change-world-cryptocurrency-1548200)

---

There is a sequel too.. In this one Bruce Wayne decides to lobby the
government for his tax dollars to be spent more on social help, less
on stop-and-frisk bust-head-and-crack-skull approach mostly used in
Gotham. The sequel is titled "*Batman: Defunding the Police*". It
works, Joker, Two-Face get bored after a while, they declare they wont
show up for the whole trilogy, or even the prequels. 

---

Batman movies could be much shorter.. Bruce Wayne sees lots of crime,
then he thinks about what to do.. he think.. thinks.. while the camera
moves closer; the last scene is a near shot on BW when he says "I
guess I should pay my taxes". Done. The movie ends.

---

The saddest part in the Batman movies is when they lit up that 'bat
sign', essentially making city gov look like bufoons; the
establishment sales pitch here is "wouldn't an ultra-rich twat be
better to save your ass then the elected government?"

---

The gun is symbolism for a dick basically

---

It was [another time](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FPPRIWWWUAcqYd7?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Damn Clint! (at the end). He probably feels different about that stuff
now

"@rafaelshimunov

1973: Native American actor Sacheen Littlefeather boo'd (and cheered)
by Hollywood at the Oscars.. asking that Indigenous people not to be
dehumanized in film"

[Video](https://twitter.com/rafaelshimunov/status/1447570025494327300)

---
