# Week 37 

H2 View: "Egyptian President Meets with Fortescue Future Industries
about Green Hydrogen Opportunities Ahead of COP27"

---

Lion batteries... The wrong technology for the green transition by any
measure.

Al Jazeera: "At least eight people have been killed and 11 injured in
a fire that started at an electric scooter showroom in India, police
said, in what is the deadliest such incident involving electric
vehicles in the country...

A spate of electric scooter fires this year has alarmed the
government.. Early investigations have identified faulty battery cells
and battery modules among the main causes.. In March, India launched
an investigation over safety concerns after a string of e-scooter
fires, including one in which a man and his daughter died when their
e-bike 'went up in flames'".

---

Bin Laden probably saw the whole thing and said "that's some gangsta
shit".  "Taking out my homeboi like that...? Imma git you muthafackas"

---

The royal fam is all about image. That's mostly the job. Their deep
state had people killed for the image. Why is Diana dead? After the
divorce you go off to date an A-rab? With a child on the way? Dam
woman, what was you thinking? Disturbed the image. She dead.

---

There is one with Hayden Christensenssensensen. Before Darth Vader he
apparently did bizarre psych thrillers, and troubled teen roles. Then
he landed the troubled teen role of a lifetime.

---

How many movies were made with the title "Awake" exactly? I can't
find the one I'm looking for

---

"@RepJayapal

The Inflation Reduction Act is a major step that will make the largest
investment in our country's history into climate action"

---

H2 View: "‘Green ammonia is going to be the fossil-free crude of the
hydrogen fuel economy’, Colin Hamilton, COO at Verano Energy"

---

CNBC: "This Canadian company wants to build a train-plane ‘hybrid'
that can go 620 miles per hour.. Toronto-based TransPod says FluxJet
is 'a hybrid between an aircraft and a train' that would be faster and
cheaper to travel between cities than an airplane"

---

TDB: "The firebombing of Tokyo came at a time when America and the
Allies were clearly winning the war and in no danger of having their
homelands bombed. America had a variety of options for bringing the
war against Japan to a close"

---

Politico: "70,000 or so Czechs who protested in Prague last weekend
[were] calling for the resignation of the country’s center-right
coalition. 'The aim of our demonstration is to demand change, mainly
in solving the issue of energy prices, especially electricity and gas,
which will destroy our economy this autumn,' event co-organizer.. told
local media. In response, whether wittingly or not, Czech Prime
Minister Petr Fiala accused protesters of acting on behalf of the
Kremlin"

---

CNBC: "Apple event this year had an unusually dark undertone as it
leaned into emergency features for a dangerous world..

The most significant new iPhone capability this year is called
'Emergency SOS via satellite,' which can send a message for help even
if there’s no cell service around for miles"

---

It is of course sad to lose readers

---

George Ellis: "Theoretical physics and cosmology find themselves in a
strange place. Scientific theories have since the seventeenth century
been held tight by an experimental leash. In the last twenty years or
so, both string theory and theories of the multiverse have slipped the
leash. Their owners argue that this is no time to bring these subjects
to heel.

It is this that is strange.

Misery Loves Company

The multiverse is a collection, set, or ensemble of possibly disjoint
universes. They are possible because no one knows whether they
exist. Max Tegmark has contemplated four different kinds of
multiverse, and Brian Greene, nine. Nothing exceeds like excess"

[[-]](https://inference-review.com/article/physics-on-edge)

---

H2 View: "Steel-giant thyssenkrupp has announced it will invest €2bn
($2.01bn) to transform its plant in Duisburg, Germany into one of the
largest hydrogen-powered direct reduction plants"

---

\#Geography \#US 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/BubAF7KSs64)

---

Can latest UKR gains be used as basis for piece summit? Defenders can
boast they are now negotiating from a "position of strength", RU has
part of Donetsk, Luhansk, Crimea and a land bridge from Russia to
Crimea.. Maybe time to call this thing quits and turn on the gas
tap. Or will the war continue throughout the winter?

---

The Guardian: "Richard Stengel [Dem, formerly State Dept] criticized
media coverage of the Queen’s death, saying on MSNBC that though Queen
Elizabeth’s 'unrivaled service' should be lauded, she still presided
over more than 30 countries as head of state and her family’s legacy
of colonialism 'had a terrible effect on much of the world'"

---

The Guardian: "Harvard University history professor Maya Jasanoff
wrote in the New York Times that the Queen’s stoic presence in life as
a 'fixture of stability' underlied a 'stolid traditionalist front over
decades of violent upheaval'"

---

"@MukomaWaNgugi

If the queen had apologized for slavery, colonialism and
neocolonialism and urged the crown to offer reparations for the
millions of lives taken in her/their names, then perhaps I would do
the human thing and feel bad. As a Kenyan, I feel nothing. This
theater is absurd"

---

One party leader spoke up for Assange, but he is considered the "town
fool" by mainstream anyway, the issue was ignored.

---

Prev talk on Australia becoming a Republic is now AWOL. Did it ever
makes sense strategically? They need a relationship with a naval power
cementing their connection to the outer alliance still being in
CWealth would be helpful there.. If the mainstream could not say a
word edgewise on Assange, why would they bother with a change into a
Republic?

---

The RU gas dependency increased throughout Schroder and Merkel
era.. Mutti was also keeping the easties in check when they freaked
out on Russia. The strategy went ahead past 2008, 2014 .. Nordstream 2
was shepherded through road blocks by CDU itself who now became rapid
RU hawks. 

---

Hands-on info is always helpful; before writing on H2 I did a little
water splitting myself. Iron electrodes, wrong path gets you sodium
chloride, [no-no](https://youtu.be/T-OwWOYHhMI?t=266), used graphite,
it worked - produced H2.

---

CNBC: "The clean hydrogen energy economy was a dream. The climate bill
could make it a reality this decade"

---

"Researchers Discover a Single Catalyst Capable of Splitting Both
Freshwater and Seawater at Low Voltage..  [They] report using a nickel
/ molybdenum / nitrogen compound, tweaked with a small amount of iron
and grown on nickel foam to efficiently produce hydrogen and then,
through a process of electrochemical reconstruction sparked by cycling
voltage, converted to a compound that produced a similarly powerful
oxygen evolution reaction.

The researchers said using a single compound for both the hydrogen
evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) –
albeit slightly changed through the reconstruction process – not only
makes water splitting more affordable, it also simplifies the
engineering challenges"

[[-]](https://www.uh.edu/news-events/stories/2022-news-articles/september-2022/09082022-hydrogen-seawater.php)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The First Land Rover Defender Equipped With a Hydrogen Fuel Cell System Is Now a Reality <a href="https://t.co/lm5AootobG">https://t.co/lm5AootobG</a></p>&mdash; Anil Gupta (@anil447_anil) <a href="https://twitter.com/anil447_anil/status/1568038786843688960?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 9, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

KBR: "[Our] large-scale blue hydrogen process uses its proprietary
KRES and well-proven SMR-based technology for expanding single-stream
hydrogen capacity. Bulk of the CO2 generated in the process is
captured as pure CO2, readily available for CO2 capture
applications... Flue gas generation is about 50% lower than
conventional processes.. CO2 recovery >95% of the total CO2 generated
as process CO2 is feasible with minor energy penalty. This can
eliminate requirement of post combustion CO2 capture plant - High
CAPEX and OPEX savings"

[PDF](https://www.kbr.com/sites/default/files/2022-02/KBR-Blue-Hydrogen_Brochure.pdf)

---

Yogurt.. dumb tigger nationalists are wrong on that one too

[[-]](../../2020/04/turkist-narrative-anatolia.html#yogurt)

---

The Kherson offensive did not go well for Ukraine; major losses.  Then
they started another, in the north, Kharkiv, there are some gains
there, we'll see if it sticks.

---

H2 Central "[Dutch] OCI announced it will start construction of a
world-scale 1.1 million ton per annum blue ammonia project in
Beaumont, Texas, based on KBR technology. The passage of the US
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the enhanced 45Q credits in the Act
strengthened the attractiveness of this project.

The US Gulf is a strategic location that allows the facility to serve
both the US market and export clean ammonia as a hydrogen carrier to
hydrogen deficit markets around the world such as Europe and Asia, as
well as catering for expected significant demand from new applications
including power and shipping fuels"

---

The EU is usually ahead on this stuff.. Individual countries are
advancing, some in a big way, but the EU level needs some more push?

H2 Central: "US Inflation Reduction Act’s 'clear and simple' rules for
green H2 throw a harsh light on EU’s strict additionality
requirements, says trade association [Hydrogen Europe,
Chatzimarkakis]"

---

H2 Central: "Fincantieri, Viking confirm deal for hydrogen powered
cruise ships... The total value of the agreements is about euro 1.7
billion... Deliveries are scheduled respectively in 2026, 2027 and two
in 2028"

---

H2 Fuel News: "New York – Governor Hochul Announces $16,6 Million in
Awards for Five Long Duration Energy Storage Projects, Hydrogen
Included"

---

The Eurasian Times: "The Javelin Anti-Tank Guided Missiles (ATGM),
5,000 of which have been supplied to Ukraine by the United States to
fight Russia, have a poor hit-to-miss ratio, range, and technical
malfunctions, as per internal documents from its manufacturer Raytheon
that leaked on Russian social media"

---

The article mentions NeXTStep machines, with Unix derivative OS from a
Jobs company, later bought by Apple, and morphed into iOS.  

---

ZDNet: "Without Dennis Ritchie, there would be no Jobs.. Modern
computing as we know it would not have existed without Dennis Ritchie,
father of the C programming language and co-creator of the UNIX
operating system"

---

\#Unix 

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FcPABUSXkAE8Yi1?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Not in the habit of using royal titles if those titles do not exist in
country I live in.. Never lived anywhere with a monarch, so I ignore
titles, including 'Sirs'.

---

"First hydrogen trains in India to be powered by Ballard fuel cell
modules.. Indian Railways has contracted a leading rail system
integrator for the development of Hydrogen trains"

---

But people like Feinst supported Iraq War at first (which partly gave
rise to torture, or more torture), some found new religion later on
admitting they were duped, would've been better not to have gone in in
the first place.

---

*The Report*, movie abt the systemic US torture post 9/11. Lays out
the events without being boring.. A. Driver, Hamm, Benning were good
in it. D. Feinstein in real life did something positive after all...

---

It is baller Abramovic getting salty with a journo, he asks "are you
cameraman or journalist", guy says "journalist", then Abram says "then
why are you holding the camera?". Boom. Thug life.

---

That's it, that's the one. 

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1tA9M3ebmIRn4PTnTc5nJvS77t_Jom6KT)

---

A meme is called for here: thug life. After a take down, people would
create animations dropping shades, hat, and a cig on someone's head
and it would say "thug life" if we remember. Perfect fit here. The
crown is already gangsta no need for hat (stolen property, by an
empire responsible for millions of deaths), just drop shades and a
cig.

---

With Koh-i-Noor Camilla will be like "it took me over 30 years but I
got here, I got jewels". Total gangsta. Imma get that crown with the
mammoth rock on it... Hell yea

---

NYT: "[2016] The Indian government has begun a campaign for the return
of a historic 105.6-carat diamond.. For many Indians, the Koh-i-Noor —
or Mountain of Light — is a symbol of colonial subjugation and three
centuries of exploitation that began with the East India Company in
the early 17th century"

---
