# Week 41 

"Russia is building its own AFRICOM in Africa"

---

WSJ: "Amid U.S.-Saudi Tensions, Officials Say Military Ties Will Endure"

---

Not only is the process fossil-free the end-product is **better**.

"New Research Shows Hydrogen-Reduced Iron has Superior Properties"

---

H2 Central: "Infinity Fuel Cell and Hydrogen, Inc.™ announced that
Infinity’s NASA-funded, Advanced Modular Power and Energy System
(AMPES) operated successfully aboard Blue Origin’s New Shepard 23
flight on September 12.. The AMPES system is a scalable modular system
that employs Infinity’s patented non-flow through, air-independent
fuel cell technology. The technology could be used to power landers,
rovers, surface equipment and habitats..

This was the first launch of a fully integrated H2-O2 fuel cell power
system aboard a space-capable vehicle since the retirement of the
Space Shuttle and the first-ever aboard a commercial space launch
vehicle. The results mark an important test and milestone in the
development of Infinity’s technology"

---

Mykolaiv, near Odesa

"Russian missiles now target Ukraine's Mykolaiv"

---

But the CapEx was not at a level to justify that earnings increase,
now eps is coming back down to trend.

```python
df = u.spy_earnings()
df = df[df.index > '2012-01-01']
df[['capex_ps','eps','cash_div_ps']].plot()
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fe5TTbaXoAA2eg5?format=png&name=small)

---

There was a bonanza of earnings during covid recovery.

---

SP 500 earnings number is combo of earnings reports from all companies
under SPY. There was other related data, I take those too, dividends,
sales, capex..

---

My Guild (testo) di J.T. Machinima - Rockol \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/cMCiJOAhQZ4)

---

Dude actually writes songs about video games

---

♪♬ Cause you're about to get swept ♪♬ like the noob you is ♪♬ 

---

Oh yeaaaa

[[-]](2019/05/stats.html#earnings)

---

In a damn "Excel sheet". Parsing

---

I see one at SP 500 level.

---

I need a combined earnings number 

---

Bloomberg: "[8/2022, Walmart] sees progress on inventory bloat,
supply-chain costs"

---

Walmart is showing some earnings growth QoQ

```python
u.yf_eps("WMT")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
              startdatetime  epsestimate  epsactual
4  2022-08-16T07:02:00.000Z         1.62       1.77
5  2022-05-17T07:02:00.000Z         1.48       1.30
6  2022-02-17T07:11:00.000Z         1.50       1.53
```

---

"Former Joint Chiefs chair [Mike Mullen] calls for talks to end Ukraine
war.. Retired Admiral.. said we have to 'do everything we possibly can
to try to get to the table to resolve this thing.'"

[[-]](https://responsiblestatecraft.org/2022/10/10/former-joint-chiefs-chair-calls-for-talks-to-end-ukraine-war/)

---

Economist Steve Keen: "[In his research] Bernanke was relying on the
mainstream theory that banks simply act as intermediaries between
savers and borrowers—the ideas for which his.. Prize companions
Diamond and Dybvig received their share of the Bank of Sweden's loot
this year (the prize was created by and funded by the Central Bank of
Sweden, not the Nobel Foundation)...

[Bernanke said after GFC] 'And although there are a lot of Americans
who understandably think that government money would be better spent
going directly to families and businesses instead of banks – "where's
our bailout?," they ask – the truth is that a dollar of capital in a
bank can actually result in eight or ten dollars of loans to families
and businesses, a multiplier effect that can ultimately lead to a
faster pace of economic growth.'

That is the mythical 'money multiplier' model of money creation that
the Bank of England said was rubbish in 2014. But because Bernanke
believed that myth, and Obama followed his advice, the recovery from
the Global Financial Crisis was the slowest recovery from a recession
in the history of the United States. By comparison, the recovery from
the Covid recession was the fastest—and then the money went straight
to the public, rather than to the banks.

For these failures, Bernanke gets the Economics Nobel"

[[-]](https://www.patreon.com/posts/nobel-prize-for-73177556)

---

That's right - and for Sandy Hook families there seems to be only two - 
sadness then jump straight into cashing in 😶

The Atlantic: "There Are No 'Five Stages' of Grief"

---

Nearly a billion? Is this a joke? 

Euronews: "Conspiracy theorist Alex Jones ordered to pay $965 million
in damages to Sandy Hook victims families"

---

These are all fantastic projects

H2 View: "The US Department of Energy has announced the winners of the
first phase of the H-Prize..

- BoMax Hydrogen (Sanford, FL) a system that integrates light-activated
nanoparticles with an enzyme to produce clean hydrogen from sunlight

- Gold Hydrogen Team (Houston, TX) a process using dark fermentation
to biologically produce hydrogen in spent oil wells

- Electro-Active Hydrogen (Knoxville, TN) a system that integrates solar
energy with algal hydrothermal liquefaction and microbial electrolysis
to generate clean hydrogen, leveraging the chemical energy from
organic matter

- Evolve Hydrogen Inc. (East Northport, NY) a novel electrolyser system
design that can use seawater as a feedstock without the need for
precious metal materials

- H3 (Palo Alto, CA) a system that integrates high-temperature solid
oxide electrolyzers with thermal energy storage to enable continuous
hydrogen production even when using intermittent renewable resources

- Biomass Super Gasifier (Indianapolis, IN) an indirectly-heated
pyrolytic gasification process to convert carbon-based feedstocks into
syngas from which hydrogen can be extracted—with the remaining syngas
used in a solid oxide fuel cell to generate power to run the system

- NX Fuels Inc. (Ann Arbor, MI) a technology that harnesses sunlight to
produce hydrogen from seawater using a photoelectrochemical process

- PAX H2(O) (Richmond, CA) a technology that could reduce the capital
and operating expenses of an electrolysis system by producing clean
water using waste heat from the electrolyser

- The Hope Group (Lubbock, TX) in-situ microwave-assisted catalytic
heating to crack methane­and generate hydrogen directly from depleted
natural gas reservoirs"

---

Finfluencers are "financial influencers [who are] unlicensed
individuals giving people on social media financial
advice".. Licensing aside crypto has inherently weak internal
protection and random social med jagoff giving advice on it compounds
the problem.

---

"Finfluencers"

The Mandarin: "The Australian Securities and Investments Commission
[had a session on].. crypto regulation, and finfluencers"

---

<img width="95%" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fe0FhHfWYAUiR21?format=jpg&name=small"/>

H2 Central: "China’s state-backed industry group the China Hydrogen
Alliance has unveiled an initiative calling for the building of 100GW
of renewable hydrogen production capacity"

---

Upstream: "Beijing-supervised industry body calls for China to
install 100GW of green hydrogen by 2030"

---

I'm looking at [WaPo GH](https://github.com/washingtonpost), I see
`data-police-shootings`, I used its data before, good, but no war
related data? There is `data-game-of-thrones-deaths` 🤨 Who gives a
shit about that? 21st century journalism should not just be about
"being online" - but also about doing stuff that can *only* be done
online, eg disseminating curated raw data.

---

RU/UA frontline is just a list of geo points; someone at MSM can
curate the data, and publish it as CSV file on a Github repo.

---

CNBC: "Treasury fines crypto company $29.3 million for violating
multiple U.S. sanctions, Bank Secrecy Act"

---

This is what Cummins does for their day job, building engine for a
TANK. The fact that these guys going all in for clean fuels should say
something.

Janes Defense: "Cummins 1,000 hp Advanced Combat Engine to be
demonstrated in October"

---

The outline of deal.. annexed areas are accepted as RU, in return for
RU not taking more areas, and not landlocking UA.

---

Last chance.. Make a deal. I believe things are abt to get much worse

Arab News: "Russia’s chief envoy: Moscow open to talks with West,
awaiting serious proposal"

---

The Guardian: "Venezuela floods kill 25 after month’s worth of rain
falls in eight hours"

---

H2 Central: "Scottish hydrogen train project on track [guessing no pun
intended] to deliver climate targets. An innovative hydrogen train
project led by the University of St Andrews has successfully completed
its next phase of testing"

---

H2 Central: "Cummins Drives Domestic Green Hydrogen Economy Forward
with First US Electrolyzer Manufacturing Facility"

---

Tech goes to clean fuel direct. Sunlight to H2. This aspect of H2
production is the most compelling, as in game-changing sense; since
the final target is such a basic element, there are many pathways to
it, and lo and behold, we can go from heat to H2, or (yet
under-explored) from biological processes to H2, or sunshine to H2, as
well as already established methods..

---

Fantastic. Now deploy. En MASSE. Produce at scale.

"SunHydrogen.. the developer of a breakthrough technology to produce
renewable hydrogen using sunlight and water, today announced that it
has received the India Patent Office’s decision to grant its patent
'Multi-junction artificial photosynthetic cell with enhanced
photovoltages.'"

[[-]](https://www.sunhydrogen.com/news-posts/sunhydrogen-receives-india-patent)

---

Lalo Schifrin - End Credits \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/VTGulnPiJ-I)

---

Dude's BEV caught fire after collision

[[-]](https://twitter.com/joshdubnau/status/1579552489854349312)

---

I like the prop. Uber, Lyft might lose profits, but they can adapt to
a new environment.

NYT: "The Labor Department.. unveiled a proposal that would make it
more likely for millions of janitors, home-care and construction
workers and gig drivers to be classified as employees rather than
independent contractors.

Companies are required to provide certain benefits and protections to
employees but not to contractors, such as paying a minimum wage,
overtime, a portion of a worker’s Social Security taxes and
contributions to unemployment insurance.
	      
The proposed rule is essentially a test that the Labor Department will
apply to determine whether workers are contractors or employees for
companies. The test considers factors such as how much control workers
have over how they do their jobs and how much opportunity they have to
increase their earnings by doing things like offering new
services. Workers who have little of either are often considered
employees"

---

CNBC: "Uber, Lyft shares sink after Labor Department issues proposal
on gig workers"

---

A good thing.. US had an hand there - acknowledging that.  Now fix
Ukraine.

F24: "Israel has reached ‘historic’ maritime border deal with Lebanon,
says PM Lapid"

---

FT: "Hydrogen fund Hy24 raises €2bn as investors seek to tap clean
energy shift.. Round attracts global groups from Airbus and Total to
SocGen and BBVA"

---

Cathie "She Gives Me No Wood" made bad investments and expects FED to
reverse those losses. Investing in battery electric cars and crypto?
What were you thinking?

CNBC: "Ark's Cathie Wood issues open letter to the Fed, saying it is
risking an economic 'bust'"

---

Near endpoints generating electricity is fine.. Long-distance energy
transmission however must be gas-based. I would even pipe clean gas
into homes at that point power can be generated from fuel-cells. One
step earlier, fine again, neighborhood fuel-cell "transformer" could
generate power for the neighborhood and supply the local "grid". But
inter-city grid, inter-state grid, inter-anything grid is a no-no.  At
long distances we need to *de-fund the grid*.

---

*House of the Dragon* 👍

---

TASS is The Russian News Agency 

---

TASS: "Gazprom already found NATO explosive device on Nord Stream in
2015.. [the] mine disposal unmanned underwater vehicle was found
during the scheduled visual inspection of the Nord Stream 1 gas
pipeline"

---

[Link](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=128cOZoAEpiFRhlgDu_0tUKKP6uc5Qcib)

---

There is some freak stuff coming out of Sweden.. Is there a hidden
globalist cell there? Do they host Bilderberg meetings..?
Eyes-wide-shut type of stuff, under the mountain, in the abandoned
bunker, you know what I'm talking about.. Suspicious.

---

Swedish Central Bank and the globalists behind them obviously favored
bank bailouts and wanted to reward that behaviour.

---

Portfolio Optimization won the Prize once.. its math can make any
knowledgable practitioner laugh.

---

Econ "Nobel"

[[-]](../../2018/05/faux-nobel.html)

---

Al Jazeera: "Trio wins [Nobel Prize] for research on how regulating
banks and propping up failing lenders can stave off worse crisis"

---

Al Jazeera: "Hungary and Serbia to build pipeline to transport Russian
oil.. Countries agree to build pipeline to bring crude from Urals to
Serbia as EU sanctions limit supplies through Croatia"

---

TASS: "[Underground Gas Storage] facilities in Europe almost 91%
full..  It is reported that the filling of storage facilities is
largely due to the purchase of [LNG] and supply through alternative
pipelines at current high prices"

---

Alan Hawkshaw & Keith Mansfiel - Organ Mania \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/MDpQ9KMmBfM)

---

Stanpoli visitors probably noticed stray dogs there - foxes are better
but stray animals are not good, not for the citizens nor for the
animal.

---

"While foxes have been around in [London] since the end of the First
World War, their numbers have boomed in the past three decades. The
expanding sprawl of the city — offering foxes free accommodation and
leftover takeaways — can help explain these increases. The London
Wildlife Trust estimates that there are 10,000 foxes in the city"

---

Haha. 

"Larry the cat chases off fox outside No 10 [UK]"

---

I have to admit UK politics is fun - constant theater

---

The Guardian: "[PM] has overruled [Chanc of Exch's] top appointment
[of a high-profile outsider] at the Treasury and handed the role to a
veteran Treasury official"

---

High-temperature electrolysis, uses heat direct, no need for
electricity.  Very cool.

"Now, backed by industry partnerships, new legislation, an eye-popping
$7 billion in federal funds for regional clean hydrogen hubs (H2Hubs),
a new draft strategy, and on-site progress to pair electrolyzers with
nuclear plants, the potential for nuclear-powered production of clean
hydrogen is clearer than ever.

In August, DOE-NE’s Light Water Reactor Sustainability (LWRS) program,
in coordination with the HFTO, offered between 20 million and 40
million USD in cost-shared funding to support the demonstration of an
'energy park' drawing 20–300 MW of thermal energy from a U.S. nuclear
power plant. That funding would tackle the design of the
heat-extraction infrastructure needed use high-temperature steam from
existing LWRs to produce hydrogen using high-temperature electrolysis
'in preparation for future scale-up of industrial use of nuclear
energy.' Proposals were invited both for the engineering and design
work needed to extract steam from a nuclear power plant, termed
'Nuclear Plant Thermal Integration'"

[[-]](https://www.ans.org/news/article-4386/hydrogen-day-time-to-celebrate-a-growth-year-for-nuclearproduced-h2/?fbclid=IwAR0iYzvsgyPz93rVy7uKtZQLGQcF2q3YxaICSfDwP4g2KWjbwI1dXL_QyrA)

---

Euronews: "Russian troops moving closer to eastern Ukrainian town of Bakhmut: UK"

---

H2 View: "Scotland must focus on green hydrogen and renewable export
industries even more to safeguard future energy security and
prosperity, according to First Minister Nicola Sturgeon"

---

Where am I getting the frontline raw data? U dont wanna know.

In the weeds of f-ing kmz, kml files..  

---

.. that too

Reuters: "Russia launches biggest air strikes since start of Ukraine war"

---

.. and there is that

Reuters: "Belarus, Russia to form joint military group, Lukashenko
says"

---

According to [War Mapper](https://twitter.com/War_Mapper) UA is making
some gains towards Svatove in the north (old frontline is green). Also
gains in Kherson along the river.. reportedly RU defensive line pulled
back to Novokeiry. These arent bad gains - strictly looking at before
and after.

```python
# bakhmut, svatove, novokeiry
geo = [[48.59086903747, 38.00222462226],[49.41519908195, 38.17381415982],[47.01290896691535, 33.60127980381953]]
u.sm_plot_ukr3('ukrdata/alt1-1010.csv','ukrdata/alt1-1002.csv',geo)
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Feu4V1-WIAA9ZnL?format=png&name=small)

---

Reuters: "952,000 people arrived from Ukraine in Feb-Aug period [to Germany]"

---

The Independent: "Amusement park goers with iPhone 14s are
accidentally alerting 911 after rollercoaster rides register as car
accidents"

---

Only due to protests, or a possible invasion?

Reuters: "France urges its nationals to leave Iran"

---

Rudaw: "Iran threatens to invade Kurdistan Region as crackdown on
protests at home continues"

---

One method "perturbs" initial point and see how widely it changes the
future, does that many times, if outcome lands on certain prediction
over and over again, that increases confidence. Can also construct a
likelihood range around the prediction from many runs.

---

As in life, some outcomes are more likely than others, there are ways
to compute those and report likely events.

"If weather systems are chaotic, ie later outcome depends on minor
changes today (which can never be accurately measured) how can we make
accurate weather predictions?"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We&#39;re delighted leading hydrogen businesses <a href="https://twitter.com/TevvaTrucks?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@TevvaTrucks</a> + Canadian <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Fullcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Fullcell</a> company <a href="https://twitter.com/LoopEnergyInc?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@LoopEnergyInc</a> are choosing <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ThamesEstuaryRegion?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ThamesEstuaryRegion</a> to expand operations. Join our Estuary hydrogen ecosystem, contact enquiries@thamesestuary.org.uk <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NationalHydrogenDay?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NationalHydrogenDay</a> <a href="https://t.co/PcDgAMdy5k">https://t.co/PcDgAMdy5k</a></p>&mdash; Thames Estuary Envoy (@EstuaryEnvoy) <a href="https://twitter.com/EstuaryEnvoy/status/1578777443355140100?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 8, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Forbes: "[Hurric forecast predicted landfall wld be at Tampa Bay but
missed].. experts point out that over the entire time, the most
highly-impacted area around Lee County was always within the cone of
uncertainty. .. 'if you are told for 5 consecutive days that there's a
2/3 probability of a major hurricane making landfall at your location,
wouldn't that mean anything? It sure would to me!'"

---

And many cities have no proper walk spaces.

"In the US over 45% of the car trips are five kilometers or less"

---

Asia Minor couldn't do it but Egypt apparently pulled it off

"Egyptian banks to start accepting Russian Mir cards shortly"

---

H2 Central: "[Upstate NY] Oswego power station to be first source of
US nuclear hydrogen"

---

H2 Central: "[The Saudi Basic Industries subsidiary] gains first
independent blue hydrogen and ammonia production certification"

---

Claim is Temple of Pergamon was taken out of Anatolia stone by stone
rebuilt in Berlin.  I bet homie gov willingly gave them away.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/C8M4i9fvq1M?t=791)

---

"But the Catholic Church supports TBB"... Right - because CC has
always been the final arbiter of accurate science 🤨 Lets not upset
Galileo in his grave. *Eppur si muove*.


---

[Black Holes](../../2022/08/black-holes.html), same.. The Big-Bang - already
mentioned.. Post-war cosmologist and physicists really bungled things
haven't they

---

"Discovery" of cosmic expansion rate increase, inflation, had received
Nobel Prize? The concept is likely [bollocks](../../2022/08/dark-energy.html).

---

H2 Fuel News: "[New york power authority] may have found a feasible
way to lower carbon emissions... A recent hydrogen blending study
found that carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) lowered by approximately 14
percent when 35 percent of hydrogen by volume was mixed with natural
gas to produce electricity.. blending project was carried out on an
LM6000 GE gas turbine"

---

Some underestimate the brain's ability to adapt, its ability to fit in
(survival may depend on it). That's why subcon aims to adapt to the
larger society, not to two f-ing fureigners at home talking fureign
shit (parents).

---

Being Swedish, French, or Polish has nothing to do with heritage, it
has everything to do with having other Swedish, French, or Polish ppl
around while growing up. Foreign family is not enough to transmit
culture.

---

"@business

Feds seized $311 million in Bitcoin. Then they watched helplessly as a
hacker stole it"

---

NY Post: "Mayor Eric Adams on Friday declared a state of emergency
over the ongoing influx of migrants [sent by bus from Souther states],
saying New York City is reaching its 'limit' on a crisis he estimates
would cost taxpayers $1 billion by the end of the year"

---

Swedish vlogger living near wildlife, nature saz doesn't want wind
turbines in his area

---

"@JulianRoepcke

Ukrainian drone footage proves Russian invasion forces captured
Zeitseve, S-E of Bakhmut, while the Ukrainian general staff claims it
repulsed all Russian attacks on the village"

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FedyOH6XwAMrUH-?format=jpg&name=small)

---

H2 Fuel News: "Faurecia received the €213m ($212.7m) grant of public
support from the European Commission for its hydrogen tech project..
Faurecia S.E. (EO.PA), a global leader in automotive technology
headquartered in France, aims to develop affordable clean mobility
solutions. According to a recent Twitter post from the company, with
the help of the grant, they can develop a new generation of hydrogen
tanks, both liquid and gaseous"

---

Director Doug Liman's father was legal adv during Iran-Contra... DL by
now did one movie inspired by that affair (first Bourne movie),
another one that partly led to that affair (the Cruise movie). Now he
has to do a movie about the scandal itself.

---

*American Made* - drugs, guns, and a pilot, during the Reagan
era. This is the Contra affair before the Iranian-Contra?

---

TASS: "Ukrainian troops withdraw from strategic heights near [Bakhmut]"

---

F24: "Russian forces are advancing on Bakhmut, threatening to take
some of the shine off weeks of Ukrainian victories"

---

