# Week 22 

H2 View: "Leading European healthcare and tech-related company
independent investment bank Bryan Garnier was Lhyfe’s joint global
coordinator and joint bookrunner at the green hydrogen company’s €110
million IPO on Euronext Paris"

---

H2 Fuel News: "The Québec Government in Canada has released it Québec
Green Hydrogen and Bioenergy Strategy to accelerate the production,
distribution and use of green hydrogen and bioenergy"

---

H2 View: "Queensland puts 2 million AUD into local wastewater hydrogen
project.. Goondiwindi Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) in Queensland,
Australia, is set to expand into hydrogen production, using solar
energy following A$2m (1.4m) of state funding"

---

H2 View: "Chemours explores hydrogen electrolysis and fuel cell
investments. Global chemistry company, Chemours Company has said it is
exploring hydrogen economy capacity investments which could support
the growth of electrolysis and fuel cell technology"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Feasibility study to clean up hydrogen production in
Kansas, US announced.. The study will evaluate the applications of
carbon capture and hydrogen purification in an effort to reduce the
company’s emissions....

Honeywell claims its technology can recover more than 99% of carbon
dioxide emissions in the existing hydrogen plant, while increasing
high-purity hydrogen recovery"

---

"Kidnappings. Outbreaks. Earthquakes. The president assassinated —
this time in his bedroom. How is it possible, many ask, that Haiti
shares an island with the Dominican Republic, with its underground
subway system, health care coverage, public schools, teeming resorts
and impressive stretches of economic growth? Corruption is the usual
explanation..

[I]f Haiti had not been forced to pay its former slave masters, one
team of international scholars recently estimated, the country’s per
capita income in 2018 could have been almost six times as large —
about the same as in its next-door neighbor, the Dominican
Republic.They called the burden imposed on Haiti “perhaps the single
most odious sovereign debt in history.'"

[[-]](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/20/world/americas/haiti-history-colonized-france.html)

---

The 'gun problem' cannot be fixed by simply harping about gun control.
'Guns are killing people, fix guns'. Nope. Centrist Dems starting
during the 90s created a culture war around this issue, so one-step
solution will meet intense objection. But if all parties are
ideologically distinct, seperate and secure in their seperation
(dividers not uniters) then 5G issues will find easier agreement. We
know this can happen because it happened before; Reagan was for gun
control. Nixon founded the EPA. Two steps; fix ideology first, gun
agreement later.

---

The world is sufficiently fucked that one-step solution are no more
enough to fix problems. We cant fix the 'green energy problem' by
simply producing 'green electricity'. What will come after? How do you
transmit the energy? 'Well we just extend existing transmission lines'
(suboptimal). So the one step taken to make electricity 'green'
fails. Two-steps was needed not just one. First step; the energy
transmission mechanism changes, becomes gas based. Second step; Green
energy is produced, converted into green gas, using the new
transmission.

---

♪♬ Gonna take it right ♪♬ into the ♪♬ Danger Zone ♪♪

Wa wa wawawa

---

A lot riding on Maverick

---

Bloomberg: "Theathers pin hopes on new *Top Gun*"

---

Paper: "The performance of high-yield bonds in the US domestic market
mirrors economic performance in the US overall. The yield spread of
high-yield debt over investment grade corporate bonds is more of a
function of the general outlook of the economy than of the health of
the issuing companies themselves, although the latter is obviously
important"

---

"@0xfoobar

Luna 2 investors"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/0xfoobar/status/1530409704387657729)

---

Luna 2.0? 

---

"Luna and UST had a combined market value of almost 60 billion
dollars. Both tokens are now essentially worthless"

---

Oh yes but they didn't have a Bill Clinton, or the centrist Democratic
Party.

"Norway and Finland have similar levels of gun ownership, but far less
gun crime"

---

Sure this whole thing will be solved in a jif by skillful Twitter
put-downs. \#Guns

---

That won't happen; at worst their military takes over, as they've done
many times before, and they run the country along with its nukes.
Obviously a coup would be bad.

"Pakistan could become a failed state and their nukes could fall in
the hands of extremists"

---

Politico: "In what sounds like bargaining rather than an unconditional
promise, Russian President Vladimir Putin toyed with the idea of
reopening the Odesa port for grain exports — while again calling for
the lifting of Western sanctions against Russia.

Putin made the remarks during a call Saturday with French President
Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, as concerns
worsened over a looming food crisis due to the inability to export
Ukraine’s grain amid the conflict"

---

Reuters: "China signs deal with Samoa as Australia vows Pacific Islands plan"

---

WION: "More western arms supplies to Ukraine risks ‘further
destabilisation’, Putin warns"

---

That was 'too slow'? A lot of military experts here

---

Wrote about that place 3 weeks ago. It's gone. Shit is no joke.

NDTV: "Russia Confirms Capture of Eastern Ukraine Town Lyman"

---
