# Week 46 


"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

China may add 106 #hydrogen refueling stations in 2022"

---

"@Casey@masthead.social

News from Egypt and Kenya: green hydrogen to solve fuel + food issues
all at once.. The new green hydrogen plan for Ain Sokhna in Egypt is a
case in point... The Sovereign Fund of Egypt is behind the project,
dubbed Egypt Green. So is ADNOC, the Abu Dhabi National Oil
Company. Other partners are Scatec for the renewable energy side and
OCI for nitrogen. Fertiglobe (a branch of ADNOC and OCI) owns the
project and will operate it"

[[-]](https://mastodon.ie/web/@Casey@masthead.social/109331152156933750)

---

This show could degenerate into an NCIS, or Law and Order type ep
easily - fascist office show with occasional "knocking down doors"
scene. "Procedural". But the leaps takes the show into wildly
different settings, keeps things interesting. 

---

New episode of Quant. Leap character "leaped" into 1989 Loma Prieta
earthquake. Looked pretty bad. Wonder how accurate the depiction was.
People was scattering about like the Japanese in Godzilla movies.

---

H2 View: "Africa could produce 30-60 million tonnes of hydrogen
annually, with a 680bn to 1,300bn dollar price tag, according to a
joint report by Masdar and Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week"

---

CNBC: "Disney plans hiring freeze, layoffs and cost cuts, according to
a memo from CEO Bob Chapek"

---

France 24: "Mark Kelly wins Arizona Senate race, bringing Democrats
one seat away from majority"

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FhSDLqzWQAA5Xow?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

"Alkaline Fuel Cell Power [AFCP] Targets Zero Carbon Economy With $50
MILLION Pipeline of Potential Contracts"

---

Many dunk on 538 for their past failures but they are making raw data
available through simple URLs, that is great. The site is useful for
me. 

---

That average is the result of an in-house recipe; gives weight to
individual polls according to recency, trustworthiness of the polling
company (why include them if they are not trustworthy), their
bias.. I've seen such approaches in analytics codes, they aren't
usually robust, I wanted to rock'n roll so went for the raw source
instead. Following indiv raw polls for race can expose trends, it can
give an idea.. It worked fine.

"Why did u look at individual polls rather than 538 average before midterms?"

---

The Standard: "HyNet North West Hydrogen Pipeline.. final statutory
consultation concluded on Thursday..  the consultation focused
on.. UK’s first 100 per cent hydrogen pipeline at scale and comprise
the construction, operation and maintenance of up to 125km of new
pipelines that would distribute hydrogen produced at Stanlow
Manufacturing Complex to several industrial gas customers across the
North West. The pipeline itself will be underground, with
approximately 10 'Hydrogen Above Ground Installations' (HAGIs)
required along the pipeline route"

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/card_img/1589707308371968000/Yo8dUKSV?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

Need to respect the cycle.. after low rates there needs to be a period
with higher rates.. Otherwise how will zombie companies go bust? There
are too many companies whose existence is questionable. Shopify, FTX,
Tesla, Carvana, Freshpet...

---

The Central Engine of an Active Galactic Nucleus

[[-]](2022/08/black-holes.html#centralengine)

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/46y3FN4fKlE" title="E-Bikes, E-Scooters Injuries Multiplying" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

NBC News: "Fire officials warn e-bike riders of battery fires.. Highly
flammable lithium ion batteries sparked 188 fires in NYC"

---

H2 View: "Mining and hydrogen in the spotlight at COP27"

---

H2 View: "Joint venture launched with plans to establish giga-scale
electrolyser plant in India"

---

F24: "U.S. blocks more than 1,000 solar shipments from China over
slave labor"

---

Instead of making itself a target in a possible nuclear exchange gov
signaled nuclear neutrality - makes sense for them.

The Guardian: "While Australia was yet to actually join the Treaty on
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, the shift in its voting position
to “abstain” after five years of “no” is seen by campaigners as a sign
of progress given the former Coalition government repeatedly sided
with the United States against it... [The treaty] imposes a blanket
ban on developing, testing, stockpiling, using or threatening to use
nuclear weapons – or helping other countries to carry out such
activities"

---

"@OdedRechavi

Impact factor

'@thetaoishway what is the opposite of wisdom?'"

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FhMMTIAWIAMcVp8?format=jpg&name=small"/>

H2 Fuel News: "Green hydrogen fuel powers innovative hypersonic spaceplane"

---

Good/bad acting aside I'm talking about being a fit. An actor is in
some ways a prop on a movie set... Certain base look, and a certain
range of acting makes the actor either a good prop or a bad prop for
certain movie. 19th century period piece needs 19th century props, a
flimsy person role can require a flimsy looking actor. Can Hugh Grant
play Jessup on *A Few Good Men*, or Christopher Walken Neo on *The
Matrix*?

---

The *Andor* lead is too bland for SW

---

\#MAGA now \#MAGBA 

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FhSBN51X0AAk-Le?format=jpg&name=900x900)

---

"@afr_h2_p

'The World cannot decarbonise without #GreenAfricanHydrogen. The fight
against Global Warming will be won or lost in \#Africa!', Siggi
Huegemann, initiator and Secretary General of the [African Hydrogen
Partnership]"

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FhWzoO8WAAAxCnU?format=png&name=small"/>

---
