# Week 23

---

Nordic Business: "Renewable-Powered Trains Are On Track In The
Nordics.. 'Hydrogen trains can be used on lines where it isn’t
feasible to establish catenary lines and where there’s a need for
heavier and longer transport than what battery-powered trains can
manage. Hydrogen can be refuelled in less than 20 minutes and cover up
to 18 hours of driving. and often the cost of setting up a refuelling
station will be lower than setting up an electric charging station,
for instance if this requires reinforcement of the power grid,' says
Kristina Fløche Juelsgaard, head of business development at Ballard
Europe.

Ballard Europe makes fuel cells for buses, ships and trains, among
other things. The company is part of Canada’s Ballard Power Systems
which has so far supplied fuel cells for a passenger train in the UK
and a locomotive in Canada. Ballard Europa is also involved in two
projects in Norway, one of which aims to develop a hydrogen and fuel
cell solution for a locomotive to be used for transporting ore"

---

H2 View: "Caterpillar has launched a three-year energy project in
Minnesota and has partnered with District Energy St. Paul for the
testing and demonstration of a combined heat and power (CHP) system
powered by hydrogen fuel"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Automakers focus on hydrogen transportation in
California and Oklahoma.. The two states have passed numerous bills
relating to H2 production, usage and storage"

---

H2 View: "Construction of Namibia’s $10bn hydrogen project set to start
in 2025. The ambitious time-scale plans will see the commissioning of
the first phase of the project by the end of 2026, with an estimated
300,000 tonnes of green hydrogen production per year once at full
capacity"

---

“Longer-term, a hydrogen pipeline network offers the most
cost-efficient means of distribution. For example, pipelines can
transmit 10 times the energy at one-eighth the costs associated with
electricity transmission lines and have capex costs similar to those
for natural gas. The industry can partially reuse existing gas
infrastructure, but even newly constructed pipelines would not be cost
prohibitive"

[Report](https://hydrogencouncil.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Hydrogen-Insights-2021-Report.pdf)

---

S&P Global: "Australia is on course to hit a notable century – but not
on the cricket field. Around 98 hydrogen projects have been chalked up
in recent months, a substantial number aimed at a future export
market. And in February one of them, Victoria's Hydrogen Energy Supply
Chain (HESC), created a minor sensation with the first trial cargo of
liquid hydrogen to Japan... Australia is anxious to get a foothold in
the nascent hydrogen market to counter its established,
climate-compromised position as a major exporter of coal, LNG and
crude oil"

---

I'd ban crypto mining period (if possible), carbon or green; it's
completely unnecessary to create a digital cash. Plus it's not like
green energy is growing on trees.

"The New York Senate has passed a bill that bans crypto mining
operations that use carbon-based fuel to power their facilities"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">my coffee is cold because the mug is stuck in a software update and I&#39;m wondering how I got here</p>&mdash; James Kirk (@Jiminy_Kirket) <a href="https://twitter.com/Jiminy_Kirket/status/1532368972141801472?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 2, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

J. Kosinski directed *Top Gun Maverick*? *Oblivion* was great.

---

"@MikeJudge

.. [N]ew Beavis and Butthead movie coming to Paramount + on June
23rd. The brand new series will follow shortly after, along with all
the old episodes'

---

Some say time to get out of the market is when the cabbie driver gives
you tips on stocks. We can replace that with 'when landlords buy
bitcoin with rent deposits'.

---

FOMO markets created 'investors' out of everyone

---

\#landlords \#bitcoin

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FUV8tftXoAIRB_Z?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Hampton Hawes - Web \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/EJVqxBLzICk)

---

CNBC: "Facebook says Apple iOS privacy change will result in $10
billion revenue hit this year"

---

How did *free* help tech companies? It gave rise to huge server farms
and the "cloud business" which would not be possible wout free OS.
Imagine paying OS license fees for every one of those nodes in a
server farm... That would cost an arm and a leg. Now content creators
create their "livestreams" wout giving a second thought on how many
computing resources that entails. All that needs resources, which used
cost *more* before open-source software. The revolution, such as it
is, did not take place through commercial companies, it happened
through free software, through people contributing their time to a
project they thought was worth their time.

---

Relative to others around it the object was actually standing still,
we ran into it, pushed it away (through solar energy). AL claims the
object was likely a buoy of sorts, just sitting there, as a marker,
maybe left-over tech from a civ which may or may not still be around.

This ET biz doesn't have to be flashy; civs can die out, not around,
we run into their leftovers, ones that are alive might not have
space-faring capability, and/or we are not that interesting anyway,
just some effin weirdos who cant get their shit together.

---

Prof Avi Loeb makes a good case; Oumuamua could be an artificial
object. He is not that excited about UFO sightings, bashes ppl wasting
time on string theory (gymnastics in Anti-de Sitter space), and the
multiverse. He seems to have the right kind of bullshit filter.

---

New York, Texas, Tennesee, Philadelphia, South Carolina.. it's carnage
over there man.. Really sad

---

AP News: "McCormick concedes to Oz in Pennsylvania GOP Senate primary"

---

Larry Fink says globalization was inflationary, deglobalization would
be inflationary \#Bloomberg

---

Discipline problems, morale down?

Military Analyst: "Ukraine military wanted to apply a new law which
would have given commanders the ability to punish soldiers, it was not
approved by gov, for now"

---

Now Africa is going to Putin begging for grain.. 

Politico: "Senegalese President Macky Sall, who is also the chair of
the African Union, gave credence to Russia's pledge that it will allow
the safe export of Ukraine's grain stocks after meeting President
Vladimir Putin in Sochi today"

---

Yuzivska field is shale-gas though.. Fracking is bad.

---

In 5-10 yrs it can all be forgotten, most of the actors that are in
office now won't be around.

"But after the war the relationship between RU/West is fatally damaged"

---

With those energy resources Ukraine could supplant Russia and become
the EU's top supplier. If taken RU will continue to be the top supplier
of energy in the region.

---

Yuzivska gas field juxtaposed on the conflict map.

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FUbvwhrWUAIOUX8?format=png&name=small)

---

"In 2010, gas [reserves were] discovered in Donbas Ukraine. The [IEA]
reported the natural gas reserves are estimated at 5.4 trillion cubic
meters, which is worth $4.8 trillion and can supply the European Union
countries gas demands for forty five years... [In] April 8, 2022,
Sergei Rudskoi, head of the Russian [mil], said in a speech: 'The main
objectives of the first stage of the operation have generally been
accomplished… [now we can] focus our core efforts on achieving the
main goal, the liberation of Donbass.'"

[[-]](https://california-business-lawyer-corporate-lawyer.com/4-8-trillion-why-russia-ukraine-eu-and-us-is-making-donbas-ukraine-the-last-stand-on-the-russian-invasion/)

---

Yea.. that wld be escalatory..  

Yahoo News: "UK 'not to send warships to Black Sea' to escort
Ukrainian grain shipments.. Earlier, UK newspaper the Times reported,
citing its sources, that Britain was considering sending warships to
the Black Sea to escort ships carrying Ukrainian grain, the export of
which is being blocked by Russia"

---

Hindustan Times: "Russia shipped 'stolen' wheat to ally Syria?"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">With its growing <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> ambitions and policies causing many to sit up and take notice, the Ulsan Free Economic Zone Authority explains the regions visions, investment and initiatives exclusively for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> in this <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Issue27?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Issue27</a> feature. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a><a href="https://t.co/DMZ77hVIvF">https://t.co/DMZ77hVIvF</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1532451636081311775?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 2, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@pipelinejournal

Britain's Gas Grid to Accept 20% Hydrogen Blend by 2023, Preparations Underway"

---

"@KeAppunn

'Price for natural gas in Germany will never be as low again as before
Ukraine war -- because of that there is now a business case for
ramping up hydrogen,' says German econ & climate min \#Habeck @BMWK at
\#bdewk22 conference \#EnergyTransition"

---

Recarge News: "Richest nations pledge support for blue H2 and hydrogen
use in natural gas infrastructure and thermal power plants"

---

"@plasturgieweb

ZeroAvia makes major strides in hydrogen refueling with shell
collaboration and airport pipeline launch"

---

H2 Stove by Empa

[[-]](https://www.empa.ch/web/self/hydrogen-cooker)

---

Couldn't Ukraine/West cut them in? Russia I mean; somehow make them
part of the process, so they would have less of an incentive to
invade?

---

Chevron, Shell had all moved in to develop Ukrainian fields.. But they
forgot about the bear next door.

---

Look at the potential new gas fields; all areas being invaded right now

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FUQZArcWYAAe841?format=jpg&name=small)

---

That translates to approx 12 gboe (gigabarrels of oil equivalent),
about one tenth of largest known oil field. Not bad. That'll push a
man to invade combined with all other insecurities building up at
those borders.

Wiki: "The Yuzivska gas field is a Ukrainian natural gas field that
was discovered in 2010. It was expected to begin production in 2017,
but development was halted because of the outbreak of the 2014 war in
the Donbas region. The total proven reserves of the Yuzivska gas field
are around 70.8 trillion cubic feet"

[[-]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yuzivska_gas_field)

---

\#ukraine \#natgas

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Eo6w5R6Uo8Y?t=1493)

---

Jane's Defense: "Incoming Australian defence minister to focus on
sovereign submarine capability"

----

Japan Times: "Biden to visit former 'pariah' Saudi Arabia"

---

F24: "White House changes tone on Saudi prince MBS ahead of potential Biden visit"

---

WION: "Suicide by firearms among youth in the United States highest in
20 years"

---

Energy will always find its customers. 

"Putin scored an own goal by invading Ukraine it will put his Europe
energy exports at risk"

---

"@DanielLDavis1

News flooding out of \#BattleofDonbas reveals balance of pwr tilting
more heavily in RU's favor despite what any of us want. It's time to
consider the unthinkable - trading land for peace"

[[-]](https://mobile.twitter.com/DanielLDavis1/status/1532345442394161152)

---

"The Russian sniper is a specially selected and skilled soldier
who.. is part of the target acquisition system... Objectives of a
sniper team during en masse employments are to hinder or channelize
movement of tactical formations and then direct artillery fire on
prioritized targets...

In Russian Military culture, artillery is called the 'God of War.'
Whereas U.S. forces rely on artillery to support maneuver, the
Russians take the opposite approach: maneuver supports artillery.
Artillery is the decisive finishing arm for the Russian Army..

The employment of UAS by Russian Forces adds another dimension to
their fires capability.  In Eastern Ukraine, Russian Forces have
demonstrated their ability to direct and adjust fires with their
drones. Ukrainian forces have repeatedly seen a systematic approach by
the Russians to acquire a target with a UAS. A high level UAS will
identify a Ukrainian target. It will then pass off that target to
another lower level UAS to determine the target coordinates. Then the
Russians will adjust their fire with the UAS based on the initial
artillery strikes. The total time for this process can be as little as
10-15 minutes...

One thing noticeably absent from Russian UAS employment is the kind of
surgical drone strike that the U.S. has used to great effect in the
past 15 years. Russia does not currently possess a weaponized UAS
similar to a Predator"

[PDF](https://info.publicintelligence.net/AWG-RussianNewWarfareHandbook.pdf)

---

WSJ: "Thousands Flee Front-Line Towns in Ukraine as Russian Forces Advance"

---

"NATO-trained" (as opposed to being NATO) actually might have worked
against Ukraine. NATO likely trained them as it trains itself, to be
able to integrate indiv country's forces so they can fight
together. That can make u lax; They did not think an integrated mil
solution. Per execution, everyday dynamics UKR is on its own in the
war against Russia, not part of any other organization.

---
