# Week 49 

"@Noevanhulst@mastodon.social

Good news: private capital flowing into \#hydrogen economy is breaking
records"

[[-]](https://mastodon.social/@Noevanhulst/109454778340955425)

---

TASS: "Ukrainian conflict affects US less than EU, European Council
head [Charles Michel] says"

---

Al Monitor: "The Saudi agriculture technology company Mowreq and
YesHealth Group, another agrotech firm based in Taiwan, established a
joint venture today to develop a network of vertical farms throughout
Saudi Arabia. They will start by building a vertical farm in the
capital, Riyadh. The venture, named Vertical Farms Company, aims for
the farm to be operational by the fourth quarter of 2023, they said in
a press release"

---

KPMG Global Automotive Executive Survey

[[-]](https://s3.masto.ai/cache/media_attachments/files/109/456/206/688/208/143/original/ef5ba691ff1c65c9.png)

---

China Hydrogen Bulletin: "Sinopec will invest 20 billion Rmb ($2.8
billion) to build a 400 km hydrogen transportation pipeline which will
connect Wulanchabu, Inner Mongolia to Yanshan Petrochemical in Beijing
with a capacity of 100,000 ton hydrogen annually"

---

Cybercurrencies are a natural fit for a "distributed federated social
network". Modify Nano with expanding money base, money as UBI, release
on the social net.

---

This is great news... I don't support forcing to take hijab off (the
case in Asia Minor a while back), or forcing to put it on.

WSJ: "Iran Abolishes Morality Police, Considers Changing Hijab Laws"

---

Al Monitor: "Protest-hit Iran abolishes morality police.. Iran has
scrapped its morality police after more than two months of protests
triggered by the death of Mahsa Amini following her arrest for
allegedly violating the country's strict female dress code, local
media said Sunday"

---

AP News: "Serbia names pro-Russian politician new spy chief"

---

A list of journalists who went to MD

[[-]](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13No4yxY-oFrN8PigC2jBWXreFCHWwVRTftwP6HcREtA/htmlview?resourcekey=undefined&pru=AAABhH2W2zA*V1PG7hJSTbifNCcDu40zLA#gid=1320898902)

---

That means H2 support is in the cards. üëç

Duvar English: "Earlier this week, [Anatolia oppo leader] Kƒ±lƒ±√ßdaroƒülu
appointed renowned economists as his advisors. Among the names are
American economist Jeremy Rifkin"

---

The whole Brexit thing started partly due to immigration 'worries' and
it ended up with a non-white PM. RS is culturally Brit but still, it's
kinda funny.

---

EU has its own Mastodon servers. Companies with big user bases,
Microsoft (LinkedIn), Google, Apple, can do the same, join "the
federation", and provide seamless login feature into their servers
connecting their users to the larger network.

---

TASS: "Future European security architecture must include guarantees
for Russia ‚Äî Macron"

---

H2 View: "BMW Group starts production of iX5 Hydrogen model"

---

Forbes: "Why are so many semiconductor chips used in cars?.. For
automobiles, the huge push for improvements in fuel economy after the
1973 oil crisis led to the rapid increase in the use of electronics in
engine controls. While electronic ignitions had started to appear in
the late 1960s, the use of microcontroller chips for engine controls
demonstrated what was possible with a digital approach. Using sensors
to monitor things like temperature, crankshaft position, mass air
flow, throttle position, and concentration of oxygen in the exhaust
gases, automakers were able to dramatically improve the fuel economy
and emissions profiles of their vehicles. The controller chips did
on-the-fly calculations to optimize engine performance, something that
was impossible to do with mechanical sensors and linkages"

---
