# Week 48 

Politico.eu: "After six years of chaos and recrimination since Britons
voted to leave the European Union, there are signs the country is
showing an unexpected outbreak of common sense in its approach to the
bloc.

In his first weeks in office, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak -a Brexiteer
himself- has sent clear signals that he wants a more constructive
relationship with Brussels and Paris, and to avoid a trade war with
Britain's biggest economic partner"

---

Al Monitor: "Amazon to open online grocery store in UAE"

---

"@hydrogenLOHC

\#Delegation Trip to Austria and Italy! Here are the main take-aways

1) When it comes to decarbonization, the new language is ‚Äúhydrogen‚Äù
(besides \#renewableenergy) üíô

2) \#Hydrogen will partly be transported via pipelines (e.g. European
Hydrogen Backbone Initiative \#EHB) ‚Äì so we must take the right steps
and find the right partners now 

3) The \#energytransition is a joint goal ‚û°Ô∏è only achievable through
international cooperation ‚Äì hydrogen is a perfect example!

4) Our \#LOHC technology = a great solution for transporting
\#greenhydrogen via ship to Italy, where the hydrogen could be injected
into pipelinesüí™ 

And: \#Hydrogen will come from all over the world, so we need all
transport options and act in a #technology-open manner!"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hyper:Fuel Mobile Stations‚Ñ¢ the power of the stars.<br><br>Hydrogen is the most abundant element in our universe. It fuels each star in our galaxy and every NASA rocket to date.. <br><br>Now it can power your car!<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/refuel?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#refuel</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/recharge?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#recharge</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NASA?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NASA</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/starpower?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#starpower</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/losangelesautoshow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#losangelesautoshow</a> <a href="https://t.co/4Gl7rCdz1g">pic.twitter.com/4Gl7rCdz1g</a></p>&mdash; Hyperion Motors, Inc (@hyperionmotor) <a href="https://twitter.com/hyperionmotor/status/1595587623783141376?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 24, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

For two teams we can look at their past K games, within that calc goal
avg, passes per minute, bad passes per minute, fouls per minute,
number of completed passes per minute in the attacking 30%/20% of the
field (see how detailed it is), it goes on... Taking such stats for
two teams even eyeballing one can probably gauge a winner. "AI" just
automates that, adds another layer of (let's be honest here) extremely
simple linear regression, and reports a result.

[[-]](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/ipython-soccer-predictions/blob/master/predict/wc-final.ipynb)

---

A lot of soccer games can be predictable. If you feed in gazillion of
base data points through "feature engineering" than even simple stupid
logistic regression will predict something. There are companies
providing such raw, so-called touch-by-touch data. See
[Opta](https://www.statsperform.com/opta-event-definitions/).

---

"@Hy_Economy@mastodon.social

Germany and France plan to strengthen that corporation regarding
\#hydrogen. Part of this should be the construction of a hydrogen
pipeline network"

---

"Ronaldo makes history.. he becomes the first.. to score in five
different FIFA World Cups"

---

"England draws 0-0 with the USA" \#Qatar

---

üòÇ US-England \#worldcup

[[-]](https://twitter.com/griffin_dahl/status/1596219000761245696)

---

RFK was ok on some left issues, but fell short... Supported the war in
Vietnam in the beginning, and promised to send 50 fighter jets to
Israel if elected president. That's why that Palestenian assassin was
radicalized and shot him literally one year after the Six-Day War.
Why support the civil right movement but be ok with Palestenians
getting bombed go bits?? Half-assed left - the perennial problem of
America. That is why RFK is dead.

---

