# Week 35 

H2 Central: "Amazon contracts Plug Power to supply green
hydrogen.. The renewable liquid H2 will be used by the online
marketplace to fuel its thousands of forklifts"

---

Of course someone had to make that joke 

"Winter Is Coming And Russia Is Tightening The Gas Noose"

---

Mfkers dont know how to demo stress analysis, fracture mech.  Build
the math mod for a structure, make sure it is little funky, apply
stress, watch it break in an unexpected way; then compute model which
shows breakage in the same place. Now that's teaching...

---

*The Great Wall*, *Samaritan*, nice. The latter had interesting
political undertones... 

---

Janes Defense: "India advances import-substitution drive.. The Indian
Ministry of Defence (MoD) announced.. another list of products that it
wants local industry to produce"

---

WSJ: "Colombia Revives Relations With U.S. Foe Venezuela"

---

Janes Defense: "New Pakistan-bound [Chinese] J-10s carry
maritime-strike camouflage.. A new batch of J-10CE fighter jets being
manufactured by the Chengdu Aircraft Industry Group for the Pakistan
Air Force (PAF) have been seen with tactical camouflage"

---

Al Monitor: "Egypt to issue bonds in China‚Äôs currency yuan"

---

H2 Central: "Australia ‚Äì The First Shipment of Renewable Hydrogen Sent
from a Tonsley Hydrogen Hub to The Whyalla Steelworks, Further Plans
for Blended Gas"

---

FCE's carbon capture *generates* energy? Awesome if true.

"FuelCell Energy‚Äôs platform can run on natural gas or biogas. Natural
gas and biogas both contain methane, a chemical compound with one
carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms (CH4). Fuel cells use an
electrochemical process to convert hydrogen-rich fuels into electrical
power and heat. Inside the fuel cell, methane is steam-reformed at 600
degrees Celsius and converted into hydrogen and CO2. The fuel cell
produces electricity, heat, water, and CO2, which can be exhausted or
captured...

[FCE] plants produce additional power rather than consume it during
the carbon capture process. By comparison, conventional carbon capture
technologies consume about 20 percent of a plant‚Äôs overall power
output"

[[-]](https://www.fuelcellenergy.com/basics-of-fuelcell-energy-carbon-capture-platform/)

---

H2 Central: "[US] FuelCell Energy, sees momentum in South Korea clean
energy drive.. [CEO].. said the company is intent on working with
local partners to make further inroads... [FCE] has proprietary
technologies using a carbonate fuel cell platform that can separate,
capture and concentrate carbon dioxide from industrial sources and
produce hydrogen"

---

Reshare on sub analysis by [Beckley](2021/03/unrivaled-beckley.md#sub).
In regional terms CH is on a more equal footing, but the other side(s) will
be full of surprises IMO, if things go that far. 

---

Do we know all the details of this incident? US wasn't performing
anti-sub exercise at the time. They might also have seen the sub but
kept it to themselves to hide their own detection capabilities.. 

"In 2006 A Chinese submarine came close to the USS Kitty Hawk carrier
group, slipping through its defense"

---

*Alienoid* trailer looked promising

---

From now on assume shared code has `import util as u`

---

It looks ok, will check later versions

---

```python
# pisky, kramatorsk
geo = [(48.0623163, 37.67371341),(48.7309677, 37.5836740)]
u.sm_plot_ukr_alt1('ukrdata/alt1-0828.csv',geo)
```

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FbUcWi8XkAASuzn?format=png&name=small)

---

Some other dude DIY publishing UA-RU border data, as fighting continues

---

This data is not curated, so likely not 100% reliable. I see a town
called Pisky occuring a few times in the file, all of them seemingly
under UA control... But latest news suggest RU has this town.

```
695980,Pisky-Richytski
695981,Pisky
695982,Pyaski
695983,Pisky
```

---

Major spike in \# of RU controlled towns

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FbQ7o53XoAceBuX?format=png&name=small)

---

H2 Central: "Cummins Fuel Cell Technology Powers New Hydrogen Powered,
Zero-Emissions Rail Fleet In Germany"

---

D. Davis on Afghanistan, from 2010. The Pakistan connection was key I
agree.. a prob never fixed; then Taliban came back

[[-]](https://web.archive.org/web/20140306031004/http://armedforcesjournal.com/war-on-the-brink-of-failure/)

---

The Canadian-German Hydrogen Alliance

[[-]](https://atlantichydrogen.ca/canada-germany-alliance)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">‚ÄúThe global market for green <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> will grow by 50 percent each year over the next decade according to Transparency Market Research‚Äù <a href="https://t.co/0dGk2WLdoS">https://t.co/0dGk2WLdoS</a></p>&mdash; Graham Cooley (@DrGrahamCooley) <a href="https://twitter.com/DrGrahamCooley/status/1563805050849447936?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 28, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

CNBC: "A key leader for Meta's metaverse software is leaving the company"

---

Where was their gun? If there isn't a good guy with a gun, how can one
stop a bad guy with a gun?

Arab News: "Dutch commandos wounded in shooting outside hotel in
gun-crazy US..  Three Dutch commandos in the United States for
training exercises were wounded in a shooting outside their hotel in
Indianapolis"

---

Al Monitor: "Israel pours energy into media blitz against looming Iran nuclear deal"

---

The Guardian: "Colombia‚Äôs leftwing government unveils tax-the-rich
plan to tackle poverty"

---

FBI raiding Maga Lago.. Dems either definitely want to run against
Trump or definitely don't want to. The attention can help DJT, in a
2015 redux.

---

Anti-semitism, critical of Israel.. what's the difference. People's
eyes will float, brains not registering anything past "anti-", but the
right corners will get the message.

---

Notice when they were hitting Corbyn with that how the narrative also
came coupled with a pro-Russia "accusation".  It may not have made
sense at first, such talk in a country who was "on the right side" of
WWII fighting against the Nazis being so enthusiastic to prove its
anti-Semitic credentials, but once we understand Israel's role in the
outer alliance (a frontier country) it all makes sense; Accusing
someone being pro-Russia and anti-Semitic is merely two sides of
the same coin.

Supportive statements are a secret handshake of sorts.. Instead of
saying 'I am wholeheartedly supportive of my country's long-running
strategy of containing the inner countries, block their access to the
high seas and position selves so we can choke off their trade at a
moment's notice" you just say "I dislike anti-Semitism and will repeat
that 100 more times just to make sure you get üòâ my üòâ meaning üòâ".

---

Anti-semitism talk in UK politics doesn't have anything to do with
anti-semitism per se, it has everthing to do with signaling loyalty to
the interest of the outer alliance.

---

"Canada and Germany.. entered into an agreement to stimulate the
development of green hydrogen production in Canada for supply to
Germany at what is scheduled to be Canada‚Äôs first large-scale green
hydrogen facility... World Energy GH2 officially launched its project
to invest $12 billion in Newfoundland and Labrador to produce green
hydrogen to power world markets"

---

"[NY] Governor Hochul Announces Maine and Rhode Island Join
Multi-State Agreement to Propose a Regional Clean Hydrogen Hub"

---

"@ScienceInsider

BREAKING: White House issues new policy that will require, by 2026,
all federally-funded research results to be freely available to public
without delay, ending longstanding ability of journals to paywall
results for up to 1 year"

---

"@INTELPSF

Extreme floods continue this morning in Malakand division of #Swat,
\#Pakistan"

[Video](https://twitter.com/INTELPSF/status/1563075096289284097)

---

Admin is getting rid of Luigi..? That is good news. Probably will go
down history as the man who started covid.

---

Bad bad bad...

"Lithium salts in the battery are self-oxidizing, which means that
they can't be "starved out" like a traditional fire."

---

"@CostsOfWar

NEW: A year after the U.S. withdrew from Afghanistan, several key
indicators reveal that the country is not better off than it was
before the U.S. invasion in 2001"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/CostsOfWar/status/1563220879047176193)

---

I wonder if shadowy figures in US delibaretely targeted Greece post
2008 so they took on a ginormous debt; Goldman Sachs underwrote those
loans and they likely egged them on; as a result Greece was saddled
with an onerous contract, later US obtained military bases perhaps in
return for lenience, help? Who knows

---

Spying scandal in Greece

---

"French manufacturer of high-end hydrogen-powered sedans, reveals
today its concept car, Hopium Machina Vision, and offers for the first
time an immersion inside the cabin"

[[-]](https://www.multivu.com/players/uk/9058251-hopium-machina-vision-the-hydrogen-powered-sedan-unveils-its-interior/)

---

Scalia died shortly afterwards - historical note

---

A DDV classic

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/D0-7dRpWoAAw_rr?format=jpg&name=small)

---

üòÜ 

"@DannyDeVito

I‚Äôd rather fist a dog than be in a relationship. Piss my pants!"

---

Trains based on elecricity seem wasteful to me, based on crappy tech,
not to mention unsafe.. Extremely high-voltage is required to transmit
that power. Why bother when one car of a train can carry the fuel for
even multiple trips?

---

Yahoo Finance: "The first fully hydrogen-powered passenger train
service is now up and running. Coradia iLint trains built by Alstom
are running on the line in Lower Saxony, Germany."

---

That is not a typo.. it says FIVE HUNDRED **GIGA**WATTS. Huge.

H2 Central: "Green Hydrogen International announces.. green hydrogen
hub ‚Äì a gigascale green hydrogen production and storage complex to be
built in Nova Scotia, Canada. Spirit of Scotia will be an integrated
green hydrogen production, storage, and transport project to be built
in phases up to a potential 500GW in size to supply a secure source of
green hydrogen to European and North American markets"

---

Quanta Magazine: "‚ÄòPost-Quantum‚Äô Cryptography Scheme Is Cracked on a Laptop"

---

Financial Post: "Ballard Power Systems Inc., the Vancouver-based maker
of hydrogen fuel cells for use in trucks, trains and ships,... share
price jumped five per cent to $11.39, the highest point since early
May, extending a 33-per-cent surge since late July.. Investor
excitement appears.. connected to the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act,
which has a massive climate-change component that could allocate
billions of dollars to incentivize the construction of hydrogen
infrastructure...

Suddenly, in a major and largely unexpected shift, the bill has
positioned the United States to emerge as a major hydrogen economy and
a potentially lucrative market for Ballard products. 'It wasn‚Äôt too
long ago, maybe two years ago, where the U.S. market really was not a
high priority for us,' [CEO] told analysts.. 'In fact, we had really
characterized the U.S. market as a California market. That has clearly
changed.'"

---

"@PlugPowerInc

Plug is proud to announce a new agreement with longtime customer
@Amazon to supply 10,950 tons per year of liquid #greenhydrogen to
fuel Amazon operations. Green hydrogen is the key to helping Amazon
reach its goal of net-zero"

---

*War Dogs*, a more grounded *Lord of War*, hilarious at times. Loved it.

---
