# Week 44 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">BREAKING ðŸ‡§ðŸ‡·: Lula da Silva will be the next president of Brazil.</p>&mdash; Progressive International (@ProgIntl) <a href="https://twitter.com/ProgIntl/status/1586845561768087553?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 30, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I see.. now that I think about it the attack came across as bizarrely
assertive in an ill-timed kind of way..  the hallmark of the previous
administration? (remember the tax cut debacle). Then possibly Tory
members got wind, plus the tax thing, MPs toppled the gov in a jif.

WION: "Russia accuses British navy of blowing up Nord Stream
pipelines"

---

Putin: "Whoever does not miss the Soviet Union has no heart, whoever
wants it back has no brain"

---

The West is getting Putinsplained

Putin: "The so-called 'cancel culture' is in reality the cancellation
of culture, is eradicating everything that is alive and creative and
stifles free thought in all areas, be it economics, politics.. Today,
liberal ideology itself has changed beyond recognition. If initially,
classic liberalism was understood to mean the freedom of every person
to do and say as they pleased, in the 20th century the liberals
started saying that the so-called open society had enemies and that
the freedom of these enemies could and should be restricted if not
cancelled"

[[-]](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/8DHevJizjQ4ooZjsZ/translated-transcripts-of-putin-s-major-speeches-from-oct-27)

---

BEV li-on battery fires are incredibly hard to put out as the fire is
self-oxidizing.. Extremely stupid tech.

AccuWeather: "Electric vehicles catch aflame during Ian aftermath..
in the wake of the Category 4 hurricane that hit the state last month,
these vehicles have been more akin to a time bomb. Saltwater flooding
in the stateâ€™s coastal areas caused the lithium ion batteries in
electric vehicles to combust, catching fire.. Eric Wachsman, director
of Marylandâ€™s Energy Institute, stated that the qualities of lithium
ion battery cells.. make these cells vulnerable to ignition, due to
the cells having closely placed electrodes that are filled with a
flammable liquid electrolyte.

---

Battery lasts a few minutes.. Sad \#Drones \#Batteries

[[-]](https://youtu.be/JRQSbK4Krg0?t=1020)

---

Why is there so much bullshit info around coffee?

---

Poster says he once had 11 coffees in a single day and could swear he
could hear electricity in the walls. It is likely one can die after
20.

---

Negative. 500 bil would mean everyone drinks over 60 cups daily.

"[A]round 500 billion cups consumed every day, according to the British
Coffee Association"

---

His immediate family wasn't rich afaik, he married into money

NYT: "For Rishi Sunak, Family Wealth From Outsourcing Adds to a
Secretive Fortune"

---

Apparently Rust has some memory check features, better than C (current
language suppored by the kernel). Memory management is the source of a
lot of bugs, security issues, especially at that low-level coding a
kernel requires.

---

In the kernel? Even C++ didn't make it there.. 

"Rust Programming Language To Land in Linux Kernel 6.1"

---

Politico: "Gavin Newsom has quietly constructed one of the biggest
digital forces in politics.. The governor has 6 million emails and 1.5
million phone numbers. Itâ€™s a massive tool, and itâ€™s led to a logical
question: What will he do with it after the midterms?

---

Reuters: "EU approves effective ban on new fossil fuel cars from 2035"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EuropeanParliament?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EuropeanParliament</a> has sent a strong signal that clean <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> mobility is a viable and realistic solution to move away from <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fossilfuels?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fossilfuels</a> in the transport sector, according to <a href="https://twitter.com/hydrogeneurope?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@hydrogeneurope</a>. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a><a href="https://t.co/41owp3yiHH">https://t.co/41owp3yiHH</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1583030622528114693?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 20, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Reuters: "Spain, Portugal and France said on Thursday they will build
a sea-based pipeline to carry hydrogen and gas between Barcelona and
Marseille, substituting plans to extend the so-called MidCat pipeline
across the Pyrenees that France opposed.

The route, dubbed BarMar, will mainly be used to pump green hydrogen
and other renewable gases but will also temporarily allow for the
transportation of a "limited amount" of natural gas to help alleviate
Europe's energy crisis, Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa said"

---

Bloomberg: "Kazakhstan Signs Deal to Make Hydrogen at a $50
Billion-Plant.. Output of Svevindâ€™s plant seen equivalent to 20% of EU
imports. Europe could start receiving Kazakh green hydrogen by 2030"

---

"Japan PM announces $260bn stimulus package to combat rising
inflation.. [PM] 'We want to protect people's livelihoods, employment
and businesses, while strengthening our economy for the future.'"

---

WION: "Brazil elections: Lula all set to make comeback to lead Latin
America's largest economy"

---

"Biohydrogen is H2 that is produced biologically..The biological
hydrogen production with algae is a method of photobiological water
splitting which is done in a closed photobioreactor based on the
production of hydrogen as a solar fuel by algae. Algae produce
hydrogen under certain conditions. In 2000 it was discovered that if
C. reinhardtii algae are deprived of sulfur they will switch from the
production of oxygen, as in normal photosynthesis, to the production
of hydrogen'

[[-]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biohydrogen)

---

"@Harvey_FRC

Don Farrell, Minister for Trade & Tourism @ausgov opens the second
half of the summit, outlining progress on net zero including the
revised 43% emissions reduction target for 2030.. Also strong A$185
billion green hydrogen project pipeline"

---

Africa is our hunter-gatherer history - the concept of a kingdom
requires a static farmer to tax. Agro started around the Medi, so
their kingdoms (perhaps to their detriment) are the oldest.

"Since humans originated from Africa they must have the oldest
kingdoms there"

---

"South Africaâ€™s first new Zulu king in 51 years crowned in Durban"

---

[Link](../../2019/12/civilized-to-death.html)

---

On the contrary, pre-agriculture free speech was our default
setting. People keep forgetting there were humans before towns, kings,
farming and armies, before "civilization". We've lived that way for
300K years, only for 10K in comparison as villagers, near domesticated
plants and animals.

"@hankgreen

[I]t should maybe be said that [free speech] is all brand new and no
human (or human institution) has ever dealt with anything like it
before, so I'm not surprised that we're bad at it and don't know what
to do"

---

TASS: "Russian gas supplies cover 40-42% of Greeceâ€™s needs, says
source in Greek gas industry"

---

WSJ: "Ukraine Expects Arrival of Fresh Russian Troops Within Two Weeks"

---

TASS: "Putin says armyâ€™s current top priority to train, equip draftees"

---

"@ecommerceshares

When do stocks peak? Simple answer: When their forward profit
estimates start to decline. Case in point: $META, where expected 2022
EBITDA is now at the same level as in Oct-2016"

---

TASS: "Russia calls for resumption of Israeli-Palestinian dialogue,
diplomat says"

---

There was a rumor a week ago a coup was attempted on Zee Ping Ping,
most air traffic over China was stopped, Xi wasnt heard from.. The
attempt clearly didn't work, and the rumor said Hu was behind it; so
during the CCP conference Xi had him thrown out, as a punishment. That
is the claim anyway.

---

Lamb - Transfattyacid (Kruder& Dorfmeister- Session- Mix) \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/94NU-W-KgxI?t=65)

---

Where would we rewind fundamental phy, before it was fucked up beyond
recognition? I thought about this before; Pre-Shelter Island
Conference sounds fine. Take QM (enough for electronics), get rid of
the stuff afterwards, using the measurements obtained past that point
continue from there, with the possib reworking QM as well to fit into
a new framework.

---

"@CompSciFact

'Unix is user-friendly; it's just picky about who its friends are.'"

---

