# Week 39 

Some collated info on HTGRs

[[-]](2022/02/h2-thermo-chemical.html#htgr)

---

"Poland amended laws to speed investment in nuclear energy In September
last year, it was announced that six large pressurized water reactors
with a combined installed capacity of 6-9 GWe could be built by 2040
as part of Poland's plan to reduce its historic heavy reliance on
coal.

S. Korea will raise nuclear power to one third of energy
supply.. France [is looking to] build up to 14 new nuclear reactors by
2050.. China alone expects to invest some $400 billion over the next
15-20 years to build –hold on to your seat– 150 new nuclear reactors.

But what does make Japan a special case is that it had been one of the
most anti-nuclear countries of the last decade.  And at the same time,
also one of the most serious about nuclear research, before Fukushima
of course.  Thanks to this situation, one of the major players in the
Japanese plan is now the so-called High Temperature Engineering Test
Reactor, the HTTR [or HTGR], which Japan wants to be the type of
reactor that will shape the long-term future of nuclear energy in the
country..

In fact, [HTTR] reactor, which is located in Ibaraki Prefecture, has
been undergoing tests for more than two decades. And now it seems that
its time has come..

[We talked about] three main types of hydrogen: gray, blue and green.
Well, the truth is that there is another one, a fourth type of
hydrogen: pink hydrogen. Which is, precisely, the one produced with
nuclear energy..

Japan is one of the countries that is taking the hydrogen issue most
seriously. And as you can now see, their new civil nuclear program has
a lot to do with it. And if we’re talking about hydrogen and Japan, we
are not talking about an idea or a futuristic pipe dream, but a
fact..

Japan's Strategic Energy Plan, approved in October 2021, states that
precisely this type of high-temperature gas-cooled nuclear reactor
will be used to produce hydrogen.  In addition, the Green Growth
Strategy to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, dated June 2021, states
that HTTR reactors will be required to produce emission-free hydrogen
in large quantities and at low cost by 2030. Which, in strategic
infrastructure terms means it’s just around the corner"

---

"[O]ne of the major players in the Japanese plan is now the so-called
High Temperature Engineering Test Reactor, the HTTR, which Japan wants
to be the type of reactor that will shape the long-term future of
nuclear energy in the country... The main peculiarity of this
helium-cooled reactor is that it does not need water, which means that
it can be located practically anywhere on the planet. What’s more, due
to its design, the core cannot go into fusion. So, in theory, it is a
revolution.  In addition, and this is very important, it can operate
at very high temperatures, over 900 degrees. And so [with high heat],
it is able to produce large amounts of hydrogen"

\#Nuclear \#Hydrogen \#Japan 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/K0Ff0Fg4mTI?t=512)

---

