# Week 42 

"@VergaraLautaro

PhD student attending first big conference, with advisor"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/VergaraLautaro/status/1579483024391307265)

---

\#Tires

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FfP0I84WIAENAED?format=jpg&name=small)

---

Wilshire index is down to 181, less overvaluation 

[[-]](../../2019/05/stats.html#wilshire)

---

\#Waya Floating City, Homes. Pyramid shape is a good idea; can help
with storms, waves.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/hZl2J47yruE?t=419)

---

If the left doesn't deliver them, some of their issues will be stolen
by others, even by right-wing nationalists, then we end up with
"nationalist socialists". And we all know the abbreviation for those
words don't we?

---

That is what the left should give you, not constant war and mediocre
half-solutions.

Bus Driver in Brasil: "I voted for Bolsonaro in 2018, because the
economy was in the dumps, I changed my vote to Lula after I survived a
heart attack this year, thanks to the public hospital he built next to
my home"

---

Yo, who gets hit in the head by lightning? Rough #SummitFear

---

*Summit Fever* üëç The Batman üëé

---

The IR gem on that is "countries have armies, in Pakistan the army has a country"

---

I think at first he thought the interviewer was making a joke, then
realized he wasn't, guy was just clueless

---

Interviewer asks Pak FM "do you think the army is too involved
in politics?" and he just laughs

---

H2 View: "Hexagon Purus has said its subsidiary, Wystrach, has secured
a framework agreement to deliver hydrogen distribution systems to a
leading European producer of green hydrogen"

---

It is said new admisson and unanimity issues go hand in hand. Can't
admit new members if existing members are wary they'd hold off
important decisions with their vote.. To get over the deadlock, voting
scheme can be changed. Although I admit I enjoy seeing Hungary partly
holding off hare-brained schemes like the EU sanctioning itself into a
recession, with majority voting maybe such issues can get solved
differently, who knows? There might be countries now who are letting
Hungary play the bad guy, go along with stupid, while keeping a low
profile. They might act differently under a different scheme.

---

The tax policy is seen as a German concession afaik bcz the issue is
near and dear to them (likely related to aversion to debt)

WION: "Olaf Scholz calls for reforms within the EU: Bats for new
admissions and military autonomy.. Speaking at the Congress of the
Party of European Socialists in Berlin, Scholz advocated for gradually
abolishing the principle of unanimity for decisions in foreign policy,
but also in other areas such as tax policy"

---

WION: "Metaverse fails to take off as user numbers tumble"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We do not want a World War.</p>&mdash; Emmanuel Macron (@EmmanuelMacron) <a href="https://twitter.com/EmmanuelMacron/status/1580504648821387268?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 13, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The Guardian: "Florida governor Ron DeSantis will fly migrants to
Illinois and Delaware"

---

H2 Central: "Western Australian Government Is Implementing The
Renewable Hydrogen Strategy to Support The Growth of The State‚Äôs
Renewable Hydrogen Industry"

---

Can't use continuously; a waste of money.

"[If I am] cycling through my battery Powerwall every single day, I'm
actually degrading the battery, and the sooner that it's going to
basically be dead and unusable and you need to go buy another one. My
battery pack is only there for an emergency, like if something crazy
happens like the power goes out.. And when I say it's not worth the
money.. I could have taken that $20,000 that it cost to put these on
the wall, and I could have put a bunch more, maybe 20, maybe 30 more
solar panels on the house.  Every single day that would be generating
money for me and money for our house, decreasing the cost"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/Qgv6Lgvy8Lc?t=495)

---

Paper: "We examine[d] how the premature death of eminent life
scientists alters the vitality of their fields... To our surprise, it
is not competitors from within a subfield who assume the mantle of
leadership, but rather entrants from other fields who step in to fill
the void created by a star‚Äôs absence"

[PDF](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/aer.20161574)

---

It's easy to create singularity in math. $f(x) = 1/x$. There. I just
created a singularity at $x=0$. The function is undefined there. Does
that mean there is a black hole at $x=0$?

---

To detail, if your spiffy new model shows a 'singularity' at a point
it doesn't mean there should be a black hole there. Equation is likely
wrong, should be corrected so it has no singularity. In measurements
the instruments never spit out a 'singularity measurement'. Whereever
you point to, there is always a measurement.

---

Math models do not lose accuracy, at first, due to discretization
(that comes later). They lose accuracy because math models
"oversmooth". You are representing phenomena based on finite particles
with something that works at infinitely fine scale. The tool helped us
for a long time, we could not (and still can't) simulate all particles
to compete with nature, math allowed scientists to research phenomena
without having a computer as big as nature. But we need to remember
it's all an (oversmoothed) approximation.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Ruben is correct.</p>&mdash; Matt Gaetz (@mattgaetz) <a href="https://twitter.com/mattgaetz/status/1542905277082746883?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 1, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Why Charles abdic and younger son Kang? It makes sense actually, from
PR point of view, if abdication is due to the Diana drama, who was the
black sheep in their family, after Charles it would make sense to make
another black sheep the Kang from PR standpoint. \#Nostradamus

---

"The mine was just inspected". If they are inspected on conformance to
insufficient regulations, then even the most diligent inspection would
not be useful.

---

I remember an accident in 2014, it made history when an advisor to PM
did Italian karate on a protestor (he was sacked). 

[[-]](https://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/aide-to-turkish-prime-minister-pictured-kicking-soma-mine-disaster-mourner-9375902.html)

---

GEM Wiki: "Mining accidents are common in [TR], which has poor
mine-safety conditions. According to a report issued in 2010 by
[TEPAV], in 2008, deaths per 1 million tons of coal mined were
7.22.. (the highest figure in the world), 5 times the rate in China
(1.27) and 361 times the rate in the US (0.02)"

[[-]](https://www.gem.wiki/Soma_mine_disaster)

---

In US there's a massive belt of coal dots around.. "the Apalachia" I guess

---

Coal mines map

[[-]](../../2019/05/oilgasmin.html#minerals)

---

Coal mining accident in Asia Minor >40 dead

---

H2 Fuel News: "UK government backs new Carbon Trust clean hydrogen
accelerator"

---

H2 Central: "Cummins Drives Gigawatt Electrolyzer Manufacturing Plant
Forward in Spain, Expanding Its Global Clean Energy Footprint"

---

Unagi sushi is great

---

‚ô¨ Escargot ‚ô™ my car go ‚ô¨ 

---

Dude ate 'escargot' in Paris on show, tis all bathing in butter,
garlic; whatever was in that would surely taste good

---
