# Week 45 

"@AlanRMacLeod

Corporate media is, by this point, literally a threat to the survival
of humanity.

'WSJ: The U.S. Should Show It Can Win a Nuclear War'"

---

"@enfree1993

According to Reuters, for the first time in several years, rail links
between Russia and North Korea have resumed"

---

The truth is out there

[[-]](bidenalien.jpg)

---

Most likely bullcrap.. Whoever released the vid plopped it on there
digitally to f--k with people. Was it gov? Not an efficient use of tax
dollars.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/rB6OQV2gD-E?t=122)

---

The "triangle-shaped UFO" claim on the aircraft carrier deck
(2018).. Checking

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Fg5tPeIXEAYGGlK?format=jpg&name=small)

---

\#UK \#US

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FgyS1jAWQAA91_P?format=jpg&name=small)

---

When I started out in sci/tech I did not expect to end up with a junk
science category one day with nearly a dozen items in it. 

---

How about a sociopathological explanation?

Kroupa: "Why the scientific community is in denial about the
falsification of the dark matter model is a question that requires
both a sociological and philosophical explanation"

---

BTW the vid below talks about nuclear waste; but it turns out using
spent (MOX) fuel is feasible. Russia now [has a
plant](https://www.world-nuclear-news.org/Articles/Beloyarsk-BN-800-fast-reactor-running-on-MOX),
and I've seen articles about US, France facilities. This tech should
be more widespread.

---

\#HTGR \#Japan

[[-]](https://youtu.be/_uTZWaJU6ho?t=528)

---

Offshore Energy: "Danish shipping and logistics giant A.P. Moller –
Maersk has signed a general protocol for collaboration with the
Spanish government to explore the opportunities for large-scale green
fuels production in Spain. The signing of the protocol was described
as a significant milestone in the collaboration that, if fully
implemented, could deliver up to 2 million tonnes of green fuels per
year"

---

Lefty move from Trudeau. 

The Guardian: "Trudeau.. criticised Ontario legislation tabled by Doug
Ford’s conservative provincial government['s..] 'draconian' bill that
would fine school.. staff C$4,000.. a day for striking"

---

"@EbrahimHashem

It’s easy to defeat the global propagandists nowadays; they’re overstretched.

They don’t know against whom they should spread their lies: Muslims?
Russians? Chinese? Arabs? Indians? Africans? Latinos? East Europeans?

Their propaganda machine is spread too thin & ineffective"

---

Politico: "Hakeem Jeffries on track to replace Pelosi"

---

"The European Union is one step closer to securing the annual supply of
two million tonnes of green hydrogen produced using electricity from
wind farms and solar power plants in the steppes of Kazakhstan. The
volume is equivalent to one fifth of European imports planned for
2030.

Hyrasia One, a subsidiary of Swedish-German company Svevind Energy
Group, reached an investment agreement in Astana with the Kazakh
government for the massive project"

[[-]](https://balkangreenenergynews.com/eu-eyes-green-hydrogen-that-hyrasia-one-plans-to-produce-in-kazakh-steppes/)

---

Jar Jar Ibrahim disciple was on *Rings of Power*.. No wonder the show
-reportedly- sucked, clearly another Woke-Cuck production.. I haven't
seen it

[[-]](https://youtu.be/YWisEBfNnFQ?t=224)

---

Hochul will likely be OK. PredictIt has Oz winning the Senate seat,
Walker for GA. 

---

```python
u.sen_pa_538()
```

```text
Out[1]: 
(['John Fetterman', '11/3/22', 'InsiderAdvantage', 46.0],
 ['Mehmet Oz', '11/3/22', 'InsiderAdvantage', 48.3])
```

---

Dems are making a mistake by leaning too heavily on Rep election
denialism. This election is now about them, not the other guy.

---

Dried food update: New oil mix, plus trahana. Pears, carrot instead of
orange.

[[-]](../../2022/07/dried-turkey-veg.html)

---

Finally found some tallow sold as product. 

---

Complaining about a third term for Xi's regime.. What difference does
it make for outsiders if in an already dictatorial system a leader
serves a third term or not?

---

Generated single PDF for all blog posts w `pandoc` bcz, why not?

---

Added the [item](../../2022/08/dark-matter.html) to the [junk science](../../2018/09/junk-science.html) 
category.

---

New Evidence Against Dark Matter \#hossenfelder

[[-]](https://youtu.be/lVkyUpMDeUs?t=303)

---

More science fail 

Kroupa: "Dark Matter Doesn't Exist.. The current cosmological model
only works by postulating the existence of dark matter – a substance
that has never been detected, but that is supposed to constitute
approximately 25% of all the universe. But a simple test suggests that
dark matter does not in fact exist. If it did, we would expect lighter
galaxies orbiting heavier ones to be slowed down by dark matter
particles, but we detect no such slow-down. A host of other
observational tests support the conclusion: dark matter is not
there. The implications of this are nothing short of a revision of
Einstein’s theory of gravitation. Why the scientific community is in
denial about the falsification of the dark matter model is a question
that requires both a sociological and philosophical explanation"

[[-]](https://iai.tv/articles/dark-matter-doesnt-exist-auid-2180?_auid=2020)

---

First time Im hearing it, I bet the singer was a big shot in France back when.

---

Not bad.. *Ella, elle l'a* by France Gall. 

---

H2 Fuel News: "Hawai company gets $1.6M clean hydrogen fuel production
funding from DoE.. Simonpietri Enterprises is receiving the funds to
broaden its waste-to-energy strategy into H2"

---
