# Week 5 

---

Guy builds a shoddy house, and expects cheap energy to heat that
house, then votes reps out who don't provide him that 'way of
life'. That demand has repercussions down the line. Gov now needs to
secure that (excess) energy, deploy military to secure its transport,
deploy overseas shadowy intel apparatus to stir shit up to keep local
actors out of balance to make sure raw crude keeps flowing.. Or cld
the f-ing guy just insulate his house w gov nudging him in that
direction somewhat?

---

If a building is poorly insulated, should government be able to tax it
out of existence?

Personal property.. But a house is not just a house..

---

Insulation; there it is again.

Euronews: "The eat or heat dilemma... More than 35 million Europeans
are unable to afford to keep their homes warm this winter..  having to
decide between heating and putting food on the table.. The two root
causes of fuel or energy poverty are low incomes and living in
buildings with low energy efficiency..

The price of energy is a significant proportion of the cost of living
in Bulgaria, especially for the poorest households. In 2018, it
represented around 16 percent of expenditure, while in Sweden average
energy costs were around 4 percent.. Energy poverty is worst in the
south of Europe..  If Sweden is doing fine now, it's ..  because of 30
years of Swedish investment in renovating houses, in developing
renewable heating systems" via @ThPellerin

[[-]](https://www.euronews.com/next/2022/01/26/turning-up-the-heat-on-europe-s-energy-poverty-crisis)

---

CNN: "Serbia pulls plug on Rio Tinto's $2.4 billion lithium
project.. Shares in Rio Tinto tumbled on Friday after Serbia revoked
its lithium exploration licenses over environmental concerns"

---

Good 4 you Serbia

BBC: "Serbia revokes Rio Tinto lithium mine permits following protests"

---

But if there is too much credit out there, then the economy "stars to
heat up", can be inflationary.

---

Bank credit does not come from bank customers' savings, they are
printed money, so money base expands. The system works because even
though the money base grows (through credit), the economy *grows into
that* base (credit was used to invest, hire ppl etc); more products,
services are circulating, but more money does not chase after the same
amount of goods, it chases after more amt of goods - no inflation.

---

Because businesses work on credit, and credit is always newly printed
money, so when businesses hand out salaries they are handing out that
new money. That could result in inflation.

"If printing money and handing it to people creates inflation why do
wage increases cause inflation?"

---

World / Opec oil production is down for sure.

[[-]](../../2019/05/stats.md#opec)

---

Gas prices were high during W, even higher than now.. Interesting, the
uptrend seems to have started at around 2003 -- after the invasion of
Iraq? Major uptick again post Libya 2011.

[[-]](../../2019/05/stats.md#gasoline)

---


2014 governor? Jerry Brown. [A centrist](https://www.kvcrnews.org/state-politics/2017-06-15/interview-centrist-jerry-brown-critiques-calif-democratic-partys-move-to-the-left)

---

A love for privatization, going ga-ga for biz cld have doomed
California's high-speed train project. States offload too much onto
the private sector, they are not retaining the key skills in their own
bureucracies who can plan, manage? 2014, CA outsources to a company
called Dragados, 'cost reduction' ended up costing *more*. How did
that slip by the officials?

---

[Link](https://youtu.be/242H7F8DKHA)

---

Just when he thought he was out, they pulled him back in üòÇ

"The Italian Parliament asked Sergio Mattarella on Saturday to carry on
as president for a second term after failing to find a compromise
candidate"

---

ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è And they use this water to serve a repulsive product, sugar water,
patently bad for health.

"Coca-Cola has been accused of dehydrating communities in its pursuit
of water resources to feed its own plants"

---

Politico: "In 2021, the SEC went after crypto. In 2022, crypto is
coming for the SEC... Cryptocurrency payments firm Ripple has started
to rack up procedural court victories as it fends off the SEC in a
case that could redefine how the agency polices digital assets"

---

Org has to make clear it will not "spread" democracy in underhanded
ways. No disruption of internal affairs of others. 

---

Sure Russia wld be in, but with a low score. 

---

What benefits are we talking about? Lots and lots of money..  And
transfer of know-how. The treasure chest needs to be so large as to be
mouth-watering... Once in, members are ranked on their democratic
status annually , money inflow gets adjusted to the cent depending on
the score (an average of independent agency results).. If org votes
collectively on stuff, even each country's vote is weighted based on
their dem score.

---

Ideafication time.. How about a new intl org that is not tasked with
spreading democracy proactively, but whose members happen to / has to
be democratic. Once countries join they get major benefits. NATO
served that purpose for Asia Minor, they were scared of USSR, a
requirement for joining to NATO was being a democracy, so country
started the change. Same for Greece too probably.. Both countries fell
in-and-out of dem at certain times, but insitutionally democracy in
some form remained.

---

One explanation could be US admin's emphasis on democracy scared
autocrats in partly democratic countries, worried US will come for
them at some point so they did their coups, "preemptive coups" if u
will, beforehand to cement their shit.. Talk of spreading democracy
caused less democracy? If admin did not talk about it, how could it
push for it?

---

NYT: "Five African Countries. Six Coups. Why Now? Burkina Faso this
week joined a list of countries that have recently experienced
military takeovers"

---

Found a dataset from Illinois Uni (below). Overall trend seems down
(does not contain recent data). 

[[-]](../../2015/09/democracy-status.md#coups)

---

Coups seem to have increased in number 

---

Countries circling Mali, most part of an org called Ecowas, sanctioned
Mali bcz of coup (14/1), but then one of the Ecowas members had a coup
itself (23/1). That is hilarious.

---

This expert talking some sense; "Putin is .. not a gambler".

[[-]](https://twitter.com/Channel4News/status/1486450116454240259)

---

Life and death issue is still in culture war territory.. bizarre

The Independent: "Laura Ingraham interview with policeman fired for
opposing vaccine mandate resurfaces after he died of Covid"

---

H2 View: "Putin claims Russia can become one of the largest exporters
of hydrogen by 2035"

---

H2 View: "Hydrogen internal combustion engines to be integrated into
Werner trucks as part of new partnership with Cummins. A new
partnership between Werner Enterprises and Cummins will see the
integration of 15-litre hydrogen internal combustion engines into
vehicles, the companies revealed today"

---

H2 View: "The Winter Olympic Games 2022 in China will be powered using
green hydrogen as one of the 'world‚Äôs largest electrolysers' begins
generating green hydrogen in Zhangjiakou"

---

H2 View: "Norway to gain 24MW green hydrogen production project to
build ammonia value chain"

---

H2 Fuel News: "The Swedish power company [OKG] has signed its first
contract for H2 made with fossil fuel-free nuclear"

---

Lavo is a great company, their chief scientist is a true genius. Lavo
has close ties to academia.

H2 Fuel News: "Hydrogen storage systems company LAVO has received a [5
million AU dollars] ($3.4m) boost to start-up its prototyping, testing
and manufacturing facility as it aims to scale-up production.

The new capital was awarded by the New South Wales (NSW) Government,
through its Regional Job Creation Fund, with LAVO hoping to create 250
new jobs at the site

---

H2 View: "Green hydrogen companies are going public to the delight of
investors.. German conglomerate ThyssenKrupp is moving closer to
announcing an initial public offering (IPO) for Nucera"

---

H2 canisters: have a few canisters to power the house, others as
empties / backups, empty canisters could be refilled in the nearby H2
station. Just like driving to a grocery store, drive to gas station to
get your home some gas. This is massive energy let's not forget,
easily transportable, it's not like inferior tech Li-on
batteries. Once at home, take empty canister out, put the full one in.

Or a service will deliver full canisters, take old one.

Or nearby municipality will bring gas in form of pipeline. House cld
be built for both.

For appliances built-in fuel-cell generates electricity from H2.

---

Here I even picked the insulating material for ya

<img width="200" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FKLLpbWXIAQh8Xi?format=png&name=small"/>

"VIPs or Vacuum Insulated Panels are specially designed panels that use
the insulation of a vacuum in a board shape"

---

Company idea: build H2-ready tiny houses. Ready for H2 pipeline, or
gas canisters (with an option to generate and store on site). Cld be a
profitable bidness.. TH can be shipped, exported right?

---


<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-6gbXBLAdLM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Hydrogen-ready boiler from [Worchester Bosch](https://www.worcester-bosch.co.uk/hydrogen).
Works on both natgas and green.

<img width="200" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FKLTkmOWUAEbCfR?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

100% H2 transmission on existing natgas pipeline is possible, I
believe the main issue is the end-products; With 20% blending existing
boilers, ovens work as if they are still taking natgas. But if
end-products are ready for green gas, or for both nat and green, then
the switch to 100% could be e-z.

---

So many colors for H2 production. Green is from renewable, blue is
from fossil plus ccs, gray is from fossil without ccs, pink is from
nuclear. 

---

üëç üöó üèçÔ∏è üöô üèé

"Jason Momoa may be joining Vin Diesel in the next¬†Fast & Furious¬†flick"

---

Ukraine is criticising the crisis talk of the West but criticising
Germany for not doing enough? ü§î

---

Klitschko the boxer is the mayor? Good experience... Next up, el
Presidente

---

Actually their hesitancy is understandable.. DE has lots of relations with RU.

Politico: "Berlin was ridiculed for sending¬†5,000 protective
helmets¬†to Ukraine rather than weapons ‚Äî prompting Kyiv Mayor Vitali
Klitschko to ask if the next delivery would be of pillows"

---

Politico: "[A previous DE Chancelor] Schr√∂der ‚Äî chairman of Nord
Stream, the Russian-owned, Swiss-based firm that owns pipelines
bringing Russian gas to Europe, and who is a long-time friend of
Vladimir Putin ‚Äî¬†went on to say he hoped ‚Äúthe saber-rattling from
Ukraine will stop"... Schr√∂der was roundly mocked for his comments"

---

Unless of course there is a bus driver for a President as in fucking
Venezuella who is printing money and giving it to people creating
hyperinflation.

---

GDP growth YoY 5.5%. Still making up for pandemic related losses.

[[Data]](../../2019/05/stats.md#cycle)

Crazy wage growth (prev quarter) 4.6%

[[Data]](../../2019/05/stats.md#wages)

Wage growth could be contributing to inflation as well, which is, if
we go by the textbook, always the main source of inflation.

---

If China previously exported deflation to the rest of the world and
now they are supposedly being cut off from the world supply
chain.. what wld that do? Cause the reverse of deflation? There is
inflation in many countries right now..

---

\#dogs \#zoom

[[-]](https://twitter.com/docmilanfar/status/1486927687893487617)

---

Interesting.. One can feel full after a proper bulgur meal,
sure.. Must be due to those 9 aminos

"Bulgur is considered a complete protein providing all nine essential amino acids"

---

