# Week 27 

H2 View: "Hydrogen heavy-duty trucks set to get their fill in
Québec.. Hydrolux has unveiled its plan which hopes to kick-start
refuelling for heavy-duty hydrogen-powered trucks in Quebec, Canada"

---

"Pyrolysis should be more scalable than electrolysis as resources of
affordable natural gas are readily available, enabling large
quantities of Hydrogen to be produced without relying on significant
amounts of dedicated renewables"

[PDF](https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/project-documents/52041/52041-003-tacr-en_3.pdf)

---

[Methane Prolysis](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FW6zGhaWAAcNDyO?format=jpg&name=medium)

---

They can store the carbon by-product as solid synthetic graphite.. Good.

Gasworld: "FortisBC Energy, Suncor Energy and Hazer Group unveiled
plans for a pilot project.. that will use methane pyrolysis technology
to produce hydrogen while storing the carbon by-product as solid
synthetic graphite.. The technology set to be deployed at the Canadian
site will be provided Australia’s Hazer Group and will generate
approximately 300,000 gigajoules of clean-burning gas energy that can
replace the equivalent annual natural gas usage of approximately 3,300
B.C. households"

---

H2 View: "bp, BOC study results set to accelerate hydrogen uptake in
UK road freight.. the joint study found distributing hydrogen as a
compressed gas via road trailer is the best option to stimulate the UK
market to take up hydrogen fuel for heavy-duty transport over the
mid-term..

The companies say the nine-month study has provided important insights
into requirements and options for hydrogen distribution, station
design, and dispensing costs for heavy-duty applications.

In the long-term, the study anticipates that both gaseous and liquid
hydrogen will have a role to play in fuelling the sector"

---

H2 View: "$6.6bn plan for 1.5GW green hydrogen and ammonia project in
India.. ACME Group have announced further plans to scale up green
hydrogen production in India, as it reveals an agreement for a Rs
52,474 crore (6.6bn dollar) green hydrogen and ammonia project in the
state of Tamil Nadu"

---

"@H2Standard

French companies plans to develop the first H2-powered fuel-cell barge
to provide power for ships while at berth in port. The goal is to
develop a green or low carbon alternative to provide cold ironing
services for containerships, tankers & cruise ships"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/2X5Jje3)

---

The Mandarin: "Collaboration mission for CSIRO’s hydrogen knowledge
centre... CEO Dr Larry Marshall: 'We’re seeing the hydrogen industry
in Australia go from strength to strength — Australian hydrogen
production for export and domestic use could generate significant
economic growth while helping drive down emissions.. The Hydrogen
Knowledge Centre will help avoid duplication.. needed for Australia to
take a world-leading role in developing and exporting hydrogen'"

---

FirstPost: "As India bans single-use plastic, a look at biodegradable
mushroom packaging.. Magical Mushroom Company, a UK-based firm, mixes
agricultural waste with the ‘root structure of a mushroom’ in order to
make biodegradable material that is similar to other packaging options
in terms of cost. It is touted as an alternative to plastic
packaging"

---

Watched *The Terminal List*. Highly recommended.

---

Great.. Spain is a huge target of such smuggling..

"Spain seizes drug gang’s underwater smuggling drones.. On Monday, the
Spanish police seized three underwater drones that were helping drug
gangs transport vast quantities of drugs from Morocco to Spain"

---

The Boston Globe: "Two-plus years into the pandemic, many companies
are anxious to get back to in-person work, but find their workers like
hybrid life just fine. There’s a new turf war shaping up at work:
managers who want everyone back in the “real” office vs. employees who
prefer the one at home. And that standoff is leading to some
irreconcilable conflicts"

---

Reason: "Sensitivity Readers Are the New Literary Gatekeepers
Overzealous gatekeeping on race and gender is killing books before
they're published—or even written"

[[-]](https://reason.com/2022/07/05/rise-of-the-sensitivity-reader/)

---

I'm not making this up, how pol discussion was diverted is now a [historical fact](2021/10/all-too-human.html#triangulation).

---

Shitlibs gallantly fought [that war](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1r8wAGwhOmflPy0vCbbSEM0mSb16Ua7qF)
for decades, then got egg on their face, and *still* no universal
healthcare to show for it.. I guess they were fighting the wrong war..
Or, to be exact, the war others manufactured for them to divert
attention from "unimportant" issues.

---

Al Monitor: "Lapid will go head-to-head against former Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu from the position of prime minister. Lapid will
lead the center-left bloc, while Netanyahu will lead the
rightwing-ultra-Orthodox bloc, with each trying to win the 61 seats
needed to form a coalition. That is why Lapid is targeting all the
Arab parties as partners in his efforts, and not just coalition
partner Ra’am... Lapid even sees the opposition Arab Joint List as a
potential partner. In a television interview this week, Lapid said,
'There hasn’t been an Arab party in the government for the past 74
years. We’re in the process of changing that now.'"

---

Fatback Band - Mister Bass Man \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/qL7t9ChdgrE)

---

But hey these days bushels of wheat are becoming more valueable, so
maybe soon 20 bushels will buy one iPhone.. Brighter days might be
ahead for the wheat country.

---

If country wants to fix the value of its currency, it needs to produce
goods, services foreigners are willing to buy, and stop printing
money, handing it to people that will be inflationary.. If the only
export item is bushels of wheat, $10 per bushel 50 of that will buy 1
iPhone, no way around that.

---

That is as useless as making Bitcoin the official currency.

"Zimbabwe to introduce gold coins as local currency tumbles"

---

Apparently all functioning nuke weapon products are ultimately tied to
the original US research, and since noone will give Iran that, are
govs not afraid of an Iranian nuke? Is that the reason for the lack of
urgency? 

---

Looks like US is stalling as much as Iran is. \#JCPOA 

[[-]](https://menaaffairs.com/what-would-the-us-and-iran-do-if-the-jcpoa-is-not-revived-policy-options/)

---

Oil-rich nation with 'power cuts'. 

"Libya protests planned over power cuts, political deadlock.. Libyans
angered by rising prices, chronic power cuts and political deadlock
planned further demonstrations"

---

Strangely these claims surface mostly when Russia's conflicts with the
"rules-based order" increase. 

---

Putin must be a very sick man.. He has been dying [for many years](2022/07/putin-health.html) now..

"Western intelligence officials believe Vladimir Putin could become
medically incapacitated 'within three-six months', a former spy has
claimed"

---

"TECO 2030 has revealed it is set to lead a Norwegian consortium to
develop the world’s first hydrogen-powered high-speed vessel"

---

PV Magazine: "Netherlands to build 10 GW national network for green
hydrogen.. [NL] is planning a €1.5 billion ($1.6 billion) green
hydrogen network that will consist of 85% recycled natural gas
pipes. It is expected to go online in 2027"

---

Energate: "The Bavarian Minister of Economic Affairs.. has now signed
a declaration of intent to this effect with his counterpart.. in
Glasgow. Together they now want to examine possible hydrogen
routes.. "Scotland is a politically stable European partner with a
potential of 25 percent of Europe's offshore wind energy production,"
Aiwanger explained. This means that large quantities of hydrogen can
be produced. Bavaria will have to rely on imports despite the
expansion of renewable energies, he said. The agreement reached also
provides for cooperation in technology development for storage and
transport'

---

Namibia is on the Atlantic, so if they ship or pipeline the product
it would be toward Portugal or Spain instead of going through
Eastern Africa / Suez I'm guessing.

H2 Central: "The European Union is planning to sign a deal with
Namibia to support the country’s ‘green’ hydrogen sector and boost
European imports of the fuel as the bloc works to reduce its
dependence on Russian energy...

In May, the EU’s energy strategy set a goal of importing at least 10
million tonnes of ‘green’ hydrogen by 2030, with another 10 million
tonnes to be produced within the bloc.

EU, Namibia tight-lipped on details of the deal. Under the plan, the
European Union will sign a memorandum of understanding with Namibia on
hydrogen and minerals at the UN Climate Conference due to take place
in Egypt in November"

---

DTT-NET: "The Trans-Adriatic-Pipeline (TAP), which brings
Azerbaijani’s natural gas to EU member countries in Balkan region and
Italy, will be upgraded for hydrogen transport, according to companies
representatives"

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FW2JUprXEAMyKQg?format=png&name=small)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">First Hydrogen powered Russian Limousine <a href="https://twitter.com/AurusRussiaEN?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AurusRussiaEN</a> The team from NAMI, the Russian National Automotive and Research Unit just unveiled the prototype of an hydrogen powered luxury limousine Aurus Senat! <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/meethydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#meethydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/limo?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#limo</a> <a href="https://t.co/g68697OHpC">pic.twitter.com/g68697OHpC</a></p>&mdash; Meet Hydrogen (@meet_hydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/meet_hydrogen/status/1402354199585865729?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 8, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Just fold'em out they are ready to go

"Australian solar tech company 5B’s rapidly deployable Maverick platform"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/xBRBZ6j8im4?t=20)

---

SCOTUS limits EPA emission reg ability? Work-around idea; power
stations can be charged a high blanket tax for energy transmission
across state lines, if they want a rebate on that tax, station has to
prove their carbon emission is low. So gov is not 'regulating' but
simply 'checking' if company would be elligeble for a rebate.


---

NYT: "Japan Swelters Through a Punishing Heat Wave.. Temperatures in
Tokyo surpassed [35 C] for the eighth straight day on Saturday, a
streak seen only once before since 1875"

---

Retired too? Had a great run no doubt. Respect

---

I see B Willis went spaz, has some condition that's why he was in so
many bad movies lately.. I was thinking 'BW doesn't choose this
bad'.

---

There was a single super-continent before the last split; fascinating.

"@ErikSolheim

One billion years of tectonic plate movements"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/ErikSolheim/status/1543494751693029376)

---

"@dancow

.. I was thinking of Jack’s first tweet cratering in value b/c
it’s now July 2022, and brain geniuses are still horny posting on
LinkedIn about how we’ll get rich by selling our airline ticket
stubs. Please if you must do grifts I just want new believable ones"

---

"@dancow

This is the greatest headline of our times (via @guardian)

'Man who paid $2.9m for NFT of Jack Dorsey's first tweet set to lose
almost 2.9 million'"

---

Ljung-Box

```python
import statsmodels.tsa.stattools as tsa
acf,confint,qstat,pvalues = tsa.acf(results.resid, nlags=4, alpha=95,qstat=True, unbiased=True)
print (acf)
print (pvalues)
```

```text
[1.         0.99585547 0.99164499 0.98737151 0.98305291]
[1.02286496e-121 5.63735022e-239 0.00000000e+000 0.00000000e+000]
```

Low pval means autocorr

---

```python
from pandas_datareader.data import DataReader # get data from FRED
cpi = DataReader('CPIAUCNS', 'fred', start='1971-01', end='2016-12')

import statsmodels.formula.api as smf
from statsmodels.stats.stattools import durbin_watson
inf = np.log(cpi)
results = smf.ols('CPIAUCNS ~ 1', data=inf).fit()
print (durbin_watson(results.resid))
```

```text
9.222098132626528e-05
```

Hints at autocorrelation

---

Investopedia: "The Durbin-Watson statistic will always have a value
ranging between 0 and 4.. [v]alues from 0 to less than 2 point to
positive autocorrelation"

---

How to check autocorr statistically? The Durbin-Watson test.. Ljung-Box Q-statistic

---

Sure; high inflation can beget higher inflation so time series would
be correlated with itself, ie autocorrelation. That is partly why CB
raises to quash that self-reinforcing effect.

"Inflation is highly autocorrelated"

---

They are likely paid from taxes, which means existing money, do not
expand the money base. 

---

If new money isn't printed for payments, they won't be
inflationary.

---

"@sfchronicle

It’s official: Most Californians will get one-time 'inflation relief' payments"

---

TDB: "‘Active Shooter’ Attacks July 4 Parade in Chicago Suburb"

---

F-ing cops.. They shoot 90 times at the unarmed guy \#Akron, but won't
go in to fight against the actually armed guy killing people
\#Uwalde.. What use are they? \#defundThePolice

---

Politico: "How the Founders Intended to Check the Supreme Court’s
Power.. Acting in concert, the president and Congress may shape both
the size and purview of the court. They can declare individual
legislative measures or entire topics beyond their scope of
review. It’s happened before, notably in 1868, when Congress passed
legislation stripping the Supreme Court of its jurisdiction over cases
related to federal writs of habeas corpus"

---

"[5/2022] Suez Canal Expansion Accelerated as April Traffic Breaks
Historic Records.. Tanker transit statistics via the Suez Canal broke
historic records in April as Europe sought to import more crude oil
and LNG from the Arab Gulf"

[[-]](https://jpt.spe.org/suez-canal-expansion-accelerated-as-april-traffic-breaks-historic-records)

---

The Telegraph: "Suez Canal records highest ever annual revenue of $7
bn"

---

Sadat played for a post-conflict settlement to get Sinai back rather
than through military action itself.. New friends in US would be
necessary for that to work, so he sent the Soviets packing.. Smart
move. See, don't have to win militarily all the time to win something
valueable in military terms. 

History Channel: "Israel’s stunning victory in the Six-Day War of 1967
left the Jewish nation in control of territory four times its previous
size. Egypt lost the 23,500-square-mile Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza
Strip, Jordan lost the West Bank and East Jerusalem, and Syria lost
the strategic Golan Heights. When Anwar el-Sadat became president of
Egypt in 1970, he found himself leader of an economically troubled
nation that could ill afford to continue its endless crusade against
Israel. He wanted to make peace and thereby achieve stability and
recovery of the Sinai, but after Israel’s 1967 victory it was unlikely
that Israel’s peace terms would be favorable to Egypt. So Sadat
conceived of a daring plan to attack Israel again, which, even if
unsuccessful, might convince the Israelis that peace with Egypt was
necessary.

In 1972, Sadat expelled 20,000 Soviet advisers from Egypt and opened
new diplomatic channels with Washington, D.C., which, as Israel’s key
ally, would be an essential mediator in any future peace talks. He
formed a new alliance with Syria, and a concerted attack on Israel was
planned"

---

BTW much of Luxembourg is 'indefensible', Belgium, France, Germany can
reach anywhere in that country with artillery fire. But they don't.
They don't have that kind of animosity over there, can't Israel achive
the same?

---

Israel: The pre-1967 borders talk came up during 2010s, Netanya said
'those borders were indefensible'. Of course the argument was
[bullshit](https://www.972mag.com/netanyahus-lie-regrading-indefensible-1967-borders/).

---

"@williamnhutton

On Thursday the European Research Council terminated 115 grants
offered to UK based researchers as UK breaks international law over
NI"

---

"@MaxAbrahms

America has sponsored more terrorists than Russia from Afghanistan to
Syria.

'SpencerGuard It is past time for the U.S., U.K, and others to
designate Russia a state sponsor of terrorism. It is a fact'"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/PowertrainMag?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#PowertrainMag</a> 🗞️: China Yuchai, through its main operating subsidiary, Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Company, says that its YCK05 hydrogen-powered engine has achieved stable operation during a recent demo at the Beijing Institute of Technology. Details here: <a href="https://t.co/iJJYU2d4B0">https://t.co/iJJYU2d4B0</a> <a href="https://t.co/HbB9VBpJOr">pic.twitter.com/HbB9VBpJOr</a></p>&mdash; Sustainable Internal Combustion Engine Symposium (@SustainableICES) <a href="https://twitter.com/SustainableICES/status/1481553908480847877?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 13, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 Central: "Refueling milestone to bring fuel cell hydrogen trucks
closer to reality. Federal researchers hope in July to reach a key
milestone to refuel heavy-duty fuel-cell hydrogen trucks in 10
minutes, paving the way to prototype hardware and protocols for
fueling stations...

Shaun Onorato, project lead at.. [NREL] hydrogen infrastructure
program for heavy trucks, described.. steps being taken at the
U.S. Department of Energy to make this cutting-edge technology evolve
from the drawing board into a reality...

'I kind of equate it to when the automobile first came out, people
were trying to figure out how to fuel cars and with what rates and
components. It’s really neat to be on that side of things where this
is just completely brand-new territory.'

He has been working with NREL’s heavy-duty hydrogen fueling station —
the world’s first — that was created to be highly configurable to
enable a greater variety of research tests.

'Currently nothing exists in this realm for this type of fueling. NASA
does things like extremely high-mass transfer rates of liquid
hydrogen, but this is completely new territory for the [FC] truck
market,' he noted, adding that hydrogen-fueled trucks in operation are
for light duty and use that type of refueling hardware.

'Some manufacturers use one nozzle or two to fuel the
trucks. Everything is based now on light-duty. This work will enable
the creation of a whole new set of components and protocols,' Onorato
said"

---

H2 Central: "Researchers at The Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology (HKUST) have developed a new hydrogen fuel cell which is
not only the world’s most durable to date, but is also more
cost-effective..  [R]esearch team led by Prof.. Minhua.. found a new
formula which not only could cut down the proportion of platinum used
by 80 percent, but also set a record in terms of the cell’s durability
level"

---

Reuters: "Several dozen Romanian and Bulgarian firefighters took up
their posts in Greece on Saturday, the first members of a European
force being deployed to the country to provide backup in case of major
wildfires during the summer"

---

It only takes one to get through...

"The Israeli army said Saturday it had intercepted three drones
launched by Hezbollah that were headed towards an offshore gas
field... Karish"

---

Update of the graph Unarmed People Shot By the Poh-lice, now show both
whites and non-whites. Non-whites are being killed consistently more
than whites, but overall numbers seem to be decreasing.

Still, shot at 90 times? Dam \#akron

[[-]](../../2019/05/confstats.html#unarmed)

---

It can also mean not using crpto mining; digital currency tech is not
wedded to this concept.

"[Such excessive energy consumption] means that it is essential to
improve the efficiency of crypto-mining"

---

BloombergNEF: "Crypto mining consumes more energy than all of Pakistan"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Pro tip: Leave the scene as quickly as possible so they can’t pin the aftermath on you. <a href="https://t.co/zVCB6qgSzp">pic.twitter.com/zVCB6qgSzp</a></p>&mdash; Justin Logan (@JustinTLogan) <a href="https://twitter.com/JustinTLogan/status/1543226834397151232?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 2, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Not every country can do what Finland does. The world needs a scalable
method that can be copied to many environments at ease. Industrial
production scales one product design to many. Ed is still resisting
such "economies of scale" benefits by insisting in-person delivery of
content.

"But Finland finds good teachers, and in sufficient numbers"

---

Flipping the classroom is efficient, works better than
stand-up-and-deliver style teaching. It can also lessen the burden
on the number of teachers required. 

The Mandarin: "Could more online learning help fix Australia’s teacher
shortage? One option to free up teacher time and ensure students are
getting the education they need is some learning done online and some
face-to-face"

---

Nation Building Masterclass

[[-]](https://youtu.be/YKNFOq5nN0A?t=44)

---

Voltaire.net: "EU exempts Suwalki Corridor from Russia sanctions.. The
European Union is preparing to lift its anti-Russian sanctions in the
Polish corridor of Suwalki whereby to allow the supply of essential
goods to the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad"

---

Poland had made some noises some time ago on that too saying Western
Ukraine is 'historically Polish'; code-word for 'we can take it'.  If
RU successfully landlocks Ukraine the remaining parts will have a
tough time on their own.

---

Aha. Can Belarus use the opp to move South and take Western UKR?

WION: "Lukashenko accuses Kyiv of firing missiles at Belarus: 'Will
fight if our territory invaded'"

---

"@LukeShrago

Ukraine continues to endure missile attacks and bombardments
nationwide. In the south, Mykolaiv is the only thing standing between
Russia’s army and the strategic port city of Odesa"

---

NYT: "Now Russian forces and their separatist allies control about 80
to 90 percent of the Donbas, according to Ukrainian officials.To take
complete control of Luhansk, Russia first devoted its full force at
the city of Sievierodonetsk, just across the river from
Lysychansk. After battering that city and eventually seizing control
on June 24, Russian forces set their sights on neighboring
Lysychansk.The twin cities were the last major population centers in
Luhansk Province under Ukrainian control. Now with both in hand,
Russia effectively controls all of the resource-rich region and can
regroup with Donetsk in its cross hairs. Controlling Sievierodonetsk
and Lysychansk means Russia could position its forces to mount
offensives on cities to the southwest, notably Sloviansk, Kramatorsk
and Bakhmut. Kramatorsk is one of the last major cities still under
Ukrainian control in Donetsk. If Kramatorsk falls, Mr. Putin's forces
will in effect control the whole Donbas region"

---

WSJ: "Russia Claims Control of Luhansk as Ukrainian Forces Retreat
From Lysychansk"

---

H2 Central: "Ports of Stockholm and CMB.TECH are joining forces in a
unique hydrogen collaboration at Stockholm Norvik Port. The investment
in hydrogen will encompass port operations and will also expand
service offerings to shipping companies and haulage firms, as well as
other customers and collaboration partners.. The goal is for Stockholm
Norvik Port to be Sweden’s most climate-smart and sustainable port"

---

H2 Central: "The Commission aims to significantly boost the import and
production of renewable hydrogen. In Fit for 55 – a major legislative
overhaul as part of the EU’s Green Deal initiative – an initial 5,6
million tons/anno of renewable hydrogen by 2030 were agreed upon,
which are now raised by an additional 14,4 million tons/anno with the
REPowerEU approach"

---

H2 View: "H2SITE Raises 12,5M€ to Scale Membrane Reactor Breakthrough
Technology.. The funding will accelerate the scale up of H2SITE’s
integrated membrane reactor and membrane separation technologies to
obtain fuel cell purity hydrogen from ammonia or methanol cracking, or
enable hydrogen transportation in existing natural gas infrastructure"

---

H2 View: "Chinese 560 horsepower hydrogen-powered engine
ignited.. Chinese engine manufacturer, Yuchai, has taken yet another
step forward in its development of hydrogen-powered engines, as it
announces the ignition of what it says is China’s largest and most
powerful hydrogen-fuelled engine"

---

H2 Central: "Ambassador of Armenia in France, Children of Armenia Fund
(COAF) and HyGreenCo company.. have consented to sign a partnership
agreement aimed at the construction of the first industrial
demonstrator of.. the entire chain production of green hydrogen [in
Armenia]"

---

"India Hydrogen Alliance Seeks $360 Million from Government to Deploy
25 Green Hubs"

---

"@ANativeAngeleno

Germany and Chile on Tuesday signed a letter of intent for a bilateral
alliance on hydrogen production and trade to try to facilitate a
renewable energy hydrogen supply chain between the countries"

[[-]](http://ow.ly/8fy550JMXie )

---

The friend, Ben.. I was wondering where that actor had gone.. Saw the
guy on *Battleship* (good mov), one X-Men, *John Carter* (WTF?), then
nothing. Not a bad actor.

---

*The Terminal List* - going great so far.. Fine story, good action.

---

Centrist Democrats caused this whole mess by inflaming culture wars,
then not being able to fight it, were hammered, the current SCOTUS is
the result of that. But it cld be a sign of desperation too, pols
could not find a working political setup at the federal level, so they
resorted to these secondary issues, measures (and were pummeled by
them, making the system look like a joke -the country who fought for
abolishing slavery cannot guarantee basic freedoms to half of its
population-). Cant handle the federal level? Then well, maybe soon
won't have a federal level.

---

One could argue United States became united without proper discussion,
without proper debate, in a modern context. There was the civil war
around slavery, federal/local divide was always an issue, but division
settled.. too soon..? Post WWII the war-state bulldozed over
everything anyway and took over, without much discussion.

Europe is going through that discussion now, how states work together,
while still being distinctly seperate, we see some states join (and
some leave).  Stuff is being worked on... Maybe US needs to go back to
a clean slate, then start over. Be less united, then try again.

---

What to do about the "useless tinkering" approach commonly seen in US?
Maybe the latest SCOTUS stance against the "administrative state",
will have the side effect of US eventually disintegrating. Then there
won't be any experimentation of any kind at gov level, bcz nothing
will get done at that level.

---

I say this about El Salvador's Bukake; his country does not show up in
my drug trafficking map, so tough on drugs stance must be working. He
doesn't know much about economics, but not bad here.

---

Politico: "After decades of illegally crushing competition at the
expense of consumers and small businesses, .. 'Big Tech'.. are finally
facing their antitrust comeuppance in Washington.. American Innovation
and Choice Online Act (AICO).. would ban Big Tech companies from
unfairly giving their products a boost over competitors. The prospect
of this widely popular bill passing has led Big Tech to engage in one
of the most desperate lobbying sprees in recent history. Big Tech’s
“see-what-sticks” smear campaign against antitrust has encompassed
everything from false claims about content moderation to urging
consultants to pushing the message.. that AICO 'will harm communities
of color'"

---

The Atlantic: "In May, the Tribune was acquired by Alden Global
Capital, a secretive hedge fund that has quickly, and with remarkable
ease, become one of the largest newspaper operators in the
country. The new owners did not fly to Chicago to address the staff,
nor did they bother with paeans to the vital civic role of
journalism. Instead, they gutted the place...

The hollowing-out of the Chicago Tribune was noted in the national
press, of course. There were sober op-eds and lamentations on Twitter
and expressions of disappointment by professors of journalism. But
outside the industry, few seemed to notice. Meanwhile, the Tribune’s
remaining staff, which had been spread thin even before Alden came
along, struggled to perform the newspaper’s most basic
functions. After a powerful Illinois state legislator resigned amid
bribery allegations, the paper didn’t have a reporter in Springfield
to follow the resulting scandal. And when Chicago suffered a brutal
summer crime wave, the paper had no one on the night shift to listen
to the police scanner"

---

Yeah? One for all, all for one type of deal? A Mini Medi-NATO? That is
significant. FR has some strat interest in Eastern Med for sure.

"[9/2021] Under the conditions of the agreement signed by [Greece and
France], France has pledged to provide immediate military assistance
to Greece – and vice versa – in the event of an attack by a third
country, even if that country is in one of their alliances (such as
Turkey, which is a NATO member)"

[[-]](https://greekreporter.com/2021/09/28/the-entire-france-greece-defense-and-security-agreement/)

---

BBC: "Russia moves to take control of Sakhalin-2 oil and gas project..
The project, which supplies about 4% of the world's current liquefied
natural gas (LNG) market, is 50% owned and operated by Gazprom..  This
appears to be a deeply political move. The impact is likely to be felt
most keenly in Japan, which has been heavily involved in sanctions
against Russia... Japan.. is heavily reliant on imports of liquid
natural gas. Competition for shipments globally is currently intense -
and the Sakhalin project alone currently meets about 8% of its needs"

---

WION: "First bus service between Crimea and Russian-held Ukraine territory starts"

---
