# Week 29 

H2 Central: "Monolith, a global leader in clean hydrogen, carbon black
and ammonia, announced its latest investment round of more than $300
million..

Monolith cleanly produces essential materials including hydrogen and
carbon black by utilizing an innovative and proprietary breakthrough
in commercial-scale methane pyrolysis, and was the first
U.S. manufacturer to produce clean hydrogen using methane pyrolysis at
scale.

This innovation attracted worldwide attention, prompting organizations
like SK to sign a memorandum of understanding last October with
Monolith to produce clean hydrogen and carbon black in South Korea. It
also generated a collaboration agreement and letter of intent with The
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company late in 2021...

The company has attracted the interest of numerous high-profile clean
energy investors and recently received conditional approval for a more
than $1 billion loan from the Department of Energy Loan Programs
Office to expand its production facilities in Nebraska"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Yara, ACME and Scatec Sign Term Sheet for Sale of Green
Ammonia from Oman"

---

"First Hydrogen Bus In Hawaiʻi Prepares For Service"

---

H2 View: "CMIC delivered its hydrogen compressor package to enter the booming
hydrogen refuleing market... The two sets of hydrogen compressors
organized to be packaged by GHT this time, using the American PDC
diaphragm compressor head, can meet the 45MPa filling pressure, and
their daily hydrogenation capacity reaches 1000kg and 500kg. The
products will be used in the hydrogen refueling station project of
CMIC Yiho’s potential customers"

---

H2, NH3 can do long-distance, short-distance. Can do massive storage,
small storage, long-term storage, any kind of storage without much
added bizarre tech.

If we play this right motorheads will even have their beloved
combustion engines with all the familiar dynamics attached to them.
Heating, cooling will be solved, efficiently.

---

Try sending electricity from UAE to Japan. That would be a pretty
stupid experiment, right?

---

Article prefaced that comment with 'still' assuming both previous
projects listed were not related to oil and gas? The clean ammonia
project was blue ammonia, meaning it was generated from natgas + CCUS.

Al Monitor: "[R]ecently, the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company sent the
experimental energy form clean ammonia to Japan. In May, the Emirati
renewable energy company Masdar unveiled a plant that turns garbage
into energy. Still, gas and oil remain integral to the Emirati economy"

---

Al Monitor: "Clean ammonia from Abu Dhabi has made its way to
Japan.. [said] The Japanese oil company Inpex... The ammonia was made
via natural gas from ADNOC’s Fertiglobe joint venture with the Dutch
chemical company OCI...

Ammonia is a compound of hydrogen and nitrogen that can be used as
fuel. Blue ammonia refers to ammonia that is derived from hydrogen in
natural gas. Green ammonia is produced using green hydrogen, which is
made from renewable energy. So-called 'clean ammonia' comprises both
blue and green.. ammonia from Abu Dhabi is “clean” because the carbon
dioxide emitted from the ammonia production process was 'sequestered
and injected into Abu Dhabi onshore oil fields,' meaning it was not
released into the atmosphere"

---

H2 Central: "EGP and Acciaierie di Sicilia are launching a new project
for the production of green hydrogen: a sustainable solution to reduce
the steel industry’s high greenhouse gas emissions...The goal is to
use green hydrogen to replace 30% of the natural gas currently used in
the furnaces to heat the rolling mills, thereby meeting a large part
of the company’s energy needs that cannot be satisfied using
electricity"

---

Energy stats for Anatolia

[[-]](../tr/2019/05/energstats.html)

---

US gas prices falling.. been falling since last month

```
2022-06-20  5.066
2022-06-27  4.979
2022-07-04  4.879
2022-07-11  4.754
```

[[-]](2019/05/energstats.html#usgasoline)

---

All energy consumption, 2021 number stands at a whopping 165,319
Twh. World energy consumption *quadrupled* compared to 60s.

[[-]](2019/05/energstats.html#primary)

---

Carbon ppm YoY increased as usual.. by 0.50%. There was an
'acceleration' too.. usually inc is around 0.25%.

```
2022-05-01    0.443776
2022-06-01    0.489330
```

[[-]](2015/08/temp-increase.html#carbonyoy)

---

Read one Russo brothers interview describing the kind of movie they'd
like to do, and it is sounds exactly like *Secret Wars*

---

Ghee is expensive compared to regular oils, butter; must be the extra
processing.

---

Even more purified fat than butter says lit. 

---

"Extracting the pure oil from cheese"? That's like ghee isn't it?

---

Hubble tension.. When you assign a new term to ignorance all of a
sudden it sounds scientific. Why dont you say *we dont know what the
fuck is going on here*

"Multiple methods have been used to determine the Hubble
constant. 'Late universe' measurements using calibrated distance
ladder techniques have converged on a value of approximately 73
km/s/Mpc. Since 2000, 'early universe' techniques based on
measurements of the cosmic microwave background have become available,
and these agree on a value near 67.7 km/s/Mpc. (This is accounting for
the change in the expansion rate since the early universe, so is
comparable to the first number.) As techniques have improved, the
estimated measurement uncertainties have shrunk, but the range of
measured values has not, to the point that the disagreement is now
highly statistically significant. This discrepancy is called the
Hubble tension"

---

Some countries get **better** than they deserve, that's when they do
well. Americans deserve Hoover, Harding, JFK, Buchanan; But also had
FDR, Lincoln, Washington.

"Every country gets the leadership it deserves"

---

Is US in recession? Econ defines it as two consecutive quarters of neg
growth. Q1 quarterly growth rate annualized [was](2019/05/stats.html#gdp)
already -1.57%. Guesstimate for last Q, from FRED (the
so-called GDPNow number) is

```python
import util; df = util.get_fred(2021,"GDPNOW"); df.tail(1)
```

```text
Out[1]: 
            GDPNOW
DATE              
2022-04-01 -1.5245
```

Then there might be a recession declaration when the GDP number for
the last quarter comes out.

---

I bet Penny M is backed by BJ - word is he is pissed at Rishi for his
'betrayal', the resignation.

NYT: "Rishi Sunak, the former chancellor of the Exchequer, is the
current front-runner, but Penny Mordaunt, a junior trade minister, is
making a surprisingly strong run for the leadership position"

---

Jane's Defense: "[French shipbuilder] Naval Group cuts steel for
second Greek FDI frigate"

---

CNBC: "Saudi Arabia's ties to the U.S. and China are not mutually
exclusive, minister says"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">EU launches 5.4-billion-euro hydrogen project with Alstom, Daimler, others <a href="https://t.co/X0j7xLCuJr">https://t.co/X0j7xLCuJr</a> <a href="https://t.co/IEOy9wYMPz">pic.twitter.com/IEOy9wYMPz</a></p>&mdash; Reuters (@Reuters) <a href="https://twitter.com/Reuters/status/1547931774629470208?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 15, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 Fuel News: "Houston, Texas-based Utility Global claims to have
invented the industry’s first non-electric electrolysis technology
platform for the ability to produce Net Zero hydrogen
conversion... The process is achieved by removing the external
electrical circuit from an electrolyser and instead driving the
electrolysis reaction with the over-potential (voltage) that exists
between different gas compositions"

---

H2 View: "Leading gas and engineering company BOC, a Linde company,
and bp Australia have announced a new agreement to build a hydrogen
refuelling station at the bp Truckstop in Lytton, Queensland"

---

FT: "Alicia Eastman: Green hydrogen will be price-competitive by
2030..  Coastal sites are key to creating green energy that can be
exported around the world, says InterContinental Energy president"

---

H2 View: "Amazon backs German electrolyser manufacturer’s scale-up
plans.. German electrolyser developer and manufacturer, Sunfire
announced on Wednesday it had become the first green hydrogen company
based in the European Union to receive an investment from Amazon’s
$2bn Climate Pledge Fund"

---

H2 View: "DNV, PIL to collaborate on hydrogen blending in India.. A
newly revealed collaboration has set out to integrate hydrogen into
gas network assets in India to support the country in its efforts
towards decarbonising its economy"

---

If renewable energy gen increased 10-fold, that would reach a
respectable 20% of overall generation. But 20% ain't 100%, so need to
convert polluting fossil into non-poluting fuels in either case.

---

Al Jazeera: "UK declares national emergency over ‘exceptional’ temperatures"

---

Jens Buchert - Dominion \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/fWzCp_cecXg)

---

The display is approx the size of a small smartphone. Extremely compact.
The green piece is the RPi.

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FXt5w2WVQAE80gK?format=jpg&name=small)

---

$130 Raspberry Pi 3

$35 4.3 inch Capacitive Touch Display 800×480 

$28 Keyboard 

Total roughly $200

---

One major adv here is RPi has full-blown Linux OS (not hidden behind
layers of crud like on Android), coding on it natively is possible,
without going through bizarre auxilary programs.

---

Bought a small touch display for Raspberry Pi computing board, hooked
up a wireless keyboard, now have a mobile computing platform. Bolt RPI
to the display, now the thing looks like a smartphone. Acts like it
too, with touch display!

---

I see.. doesn't sound good

"@CheddarFlow

$JPM to Temporarily Suspend Share Buybacks, as shared in their ER this Morning"

---

Paying back loans, investments underperforming?

"@rcwhalen

Notice that the $JPM balance sheet is shrinking pretty fast...."

---

Davis: "Supporting Ukraine For ‘As Long As It Takes’ Is Not A Strategy..

Russia was presumed to require an operational pause after taking
Severodonetsk and Lysychansk in late June, but current evidence
suggests that, to the contrary, Moscow has kept the pressure on the
Ukrainian defenders. When the Ukrainian troops withdrew from
Lysychansk, they repositioned along a new line of defense,
north-to-south from Seversk, to Soledar, to Bahkmut.

As of Thursday, Russian and Western media were reporting that Russian
troops were already in the outskirts of Seversk, and within a few
miles of both Soledar and Bahkmut – and all three are receiving
withering artillery and rocket fire, along with air strikes. Once
Russian forces break through this new line of defense, the twin-cities
of Slavyansk and Kramatorsk lie barely 25 miles to the west. The
Ukrainian troops would be hard-pressed to put up a successful defense
of either, as Russia could drive the attack with its forces from three
sides"

[[-]](https://www.19fortyfive.com/2022/07/supporting-ukraine-for-as-long-as-it-takes-is-not-a-strategy/)

---

He is basically saying 'cut your losses'. Bolso was an army captain
right? There you go

WION: "Brazil's Jair Bolsonaro says he knows how the Russia-Ukraine
war could be resolved.. 'The solution to this case would be like how
Argentina's war with the UK ended in 1982'. Bolsonaro didn't provide
any other details. [Falklands] war began in April 1982 when Argentine
troops landed on the British-controlled islands. The naval task force
was sent by Britain to retake them. Argentina surrendered two months
later"

---

First US slapped CAATSA on them now they backtracked. Wooing India.

WION: "US House passes amendment to exempt India under CAATSA over
Russian S-400 missile deal"

---

One theory is UAE, SA have no more capacity. It is more likely they
have the capacity, but are not utilizing it.

---

We'll see soon enough if the claim pans out

Newsweek: "Joe Biden's Oil Gamble Set to Backfire as Saudi Arabia
Sticks With Russia.. convincing Saudi Arabia to increase production
looks set to fail as Saudi officials have indicated the country is not
willing to abandon its oil production alliance with Russia, which
Washington has claimed is part of the reason for sky-high fuel costs"

---
