# Week 38 

Wrote before the EU would not want to allow pieces of existing members
to apply anyway bcz that would discourage others joining the EU
(fearing their subregions would want to apply one day). 

---

EU membership is good for Spain bcz inside it could veto the
membership of its subregions, eg. Catalonia, were it decide to
seperate from Spain and apply for membership seperately. Makes sense.

---

Kunafah is a M. Eastern desert. Mad delicious. On a pizza.. IDK. But
menu says it won some kind of award.

---

Kunafah Pizza? Seriously

----

The Atlantic: "The Hobbit King.. Charles III is far more interested in
the benefits of traditional English hedgerows than the great, global
glory of Britain.

Far from resisting such royal parochialism, Britain should embrace
Charles as the emblem of its new normal age. Very few people in the
world know the names of the Dutch, Danish, or Norwegian monarchs, but
their citizens are much more prosperous and their kingdoms more
settled. If Charles joins them in comparative anonymity, that should
be celebrated.

In 1962, a decade into Britain‚Äôs second Elizabethan age, the American
grandee Dean Acheson caused real hurt and anger in London by declaring
that Britain had lost an empire but had yet to find a role. The entire
reign of Elizabeth was filled with her chief ministers searching for
the answer to this challenge. But with her passing, Britain can cease
its search.¬†Not¬†playing a central role in the great game is a
perfectly noble aspiration, a liberating opportunity‚Äîand one that King
Charles is well suited to symbolize"

---

Politico": "The queen is dead. Is the monarchy next?"

---

Al Jazeera: "[D]egrowth movement has steadily been
gaining¬†ground. Based on a robust body of scientific literature,
degrowth proponents suggest that capitalism‚Äôs demand for unlimited
growth is destroying the planet..

[M]any people understand degrowth.. as a call for austerity and a
trigger of recession. In reality, degrowth is just the opposite.

To begin with, austerity is always imposed for the sake of growth. We
have been convinced, for half a century now, that cutting public
services is good for us because it will increase competitiveness,
balance the budget, and eventually lead to growth. Degrowth, by
contrast, is the argument that we can, and should, move away from an
economy that exclusively depends on economic growth"

[[-]](https://www.aljazeera.com/opinions/2022/9/19/degrowth-is-not-austerity-it-is-actually-just-the-opposite)

---

H2 Central: "Hydrogen cost parity with diesel cut by up to eight years
with new Loop Energy fuel cell"

---

H2 Central: "POSCO Holdings to cooperate with Samsung Engineering,
Lotte Chemical, Sarawak Economic Development Corporation Energy, and
Malaysian Sarawak Energy for Green Hydrogen Business"


---

Al Jazeera: "Third 'armed bank withdrawal' in a week in Lebanon"

---

F24: "‚ÄòMoment of reckoning‚Äô: Queen‚Äôs death fuels Jamaica‚Äôs republican
movement"

---

H2 Fuel News: "Ships leaving ports in [ME] area have the potential to
allow the region to remain among leaders... Middle Eastern container
ships [can] shift the nature of the region‚Äôs energy leadership to
clean hydrogen as the area undergoes a considerable change in economic
focus"

---

Scott Adkins movies do resemble stock Jason Statham work sometimes,
but the acting and the story are little better. *Accident Man* wasn't
a bad story (apparently SA wrote it himself)

---

Recommending *Avengement*. 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We have just clocked 1,160km with the Alstom Coradia iLint. We are still driving, full (<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/emissionfree?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#emissionfree</a>) steam ahead. <br><br>Join us live: <a href="https://t.co/JFbaNZmM8d">https://t.co/JFbaNZmM8d</a> <a href="https://t.co/54cCzcfXzd">pic.twitter.com/54cCzcfXzd</a></p>&mdash; Alstom (@Alstom) <a href="https://twitter.com/Alstom/status/1570541398532947970?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 15, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

@Alstom

\#DYK that our Coradia iLint \#hydrogen fuel cell powered passenger
train fleet has already completed over 200,000 kilometres of passenger
service? That‚Äôs nearly equal to five times around the planet Earth!
üöÑüåçüöÑüåçüöÑüåçüöÑüåçüöÑüåç

---

"@Alstom

Along smoothly on our Alstom Coradia iLint distance record run with
1,077 kms clocked. We can now say that we have established a
\#worldrecord üèÜ"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The Alstom Coradia iLint, the world&#39;s first hydrogen train is not only a pioneer, but it also sets the standards. The regulations on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> were completely written from scratch. <a href="https://t.co/czKJzBIumR">pic.twitter.com/czKJzBIumR</a></p>&mdash; Alstom (@Alstom) <a href="https://twitter.com/Alstom/status/1570515529106096128?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 15, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

ON A SINGLE FILLING

"@Alstom

This just in from \#TeamAlstom - We've reached a whopping 970km.. on a
single hydrogen filling"

---

"@Alstom

The Alstom Coradia iLint, the world's first #hydrogen train, just
reached the 900km mark"

---

H2 Central: "Siemens commissions one of Germany‚Äôs largest green
hydrogen.. generation plant.. to generate 1,350 tons of hydrogen a
year and cut CO2 emissions by about 13,500 tons. Opening attended by
Bavarian Minister-President Markus S√∂der"

---

Even wout Nato..? My o' my.. The great Sweden.. ran towards UK like a
scared little kid.. Now the gov who signed that deal is gone,
"populists" gained power.

F24: "[5/2022] Britain signs security deal vowing to defend Sweden in case of attack"

---

BBC News: "Energy crisis: Could Italy's next government drop Russian sanctions?"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/y2sEWe6lU9I)

---

BTW "described statistically as a random process" was done to compute
faster (they surely know the process isn't random). For fluid dynamics
we have the equations that describe the whole process.. But while
simulating turbulance, need fine detail, and that becomes
computationally costly, in some cases nearly intractable.

What these guys did was finding patterns within turbulence so it could
be computed efficiently. Every model is a summary, a shortcut, they
found a shortcut within the shortcut.

---

Turbulence is deterministic, of course.. that surprises exactly noone
who took a Nonlinear Dynamics course.

"[P]hysicists [of Gatech] have demonstrated ‚Äî numerically and
experimentally ‚Äî that turbulence can be understood and quantified with
the help of a relatively small set of special solutions to the
governing equations of fluid dynamics that can be precomputed for a
particular geometry, once and for all.

'For nearly a century, turbulence has been described statistically as
a random process,' said [scientist]. 'Our results provide the first
experimental illustration that, on suitably short time scales, the
dynamics of turbulence is deterministic ‚Äî and connects it to the
underlying deterministic governing equations.'"

[[-]](https://cos.gatech.edu/news/physicists-uncover-new-dynamical-framework-turbulence)

---

I don't think these people realize they are now in charge.. You are
not in Warsaw ghettos anymore. No need to put others in ghettos
because you were once.. You are now in charge. Don't fuck shit up.

---

The second movie? Captain Apartheid: Kosher Soldier

---

WION: "South Korea issues arrest warrant for Terra Luna founder on
charges of 'cryptocrash'"

---

WION: "As a result of the deepening ties between Russia and China, the
yuan is becoming much more popular as Moscow tries to ditch its
post-Soviet addiction to cash US dollars. On the basis of a 50-50
split between the Russian rouble and Chinese yuan, Putin said last
week that China will pay Gazprom for its gas in national
currencies. After successfully completing its debut yuan-denominated
bond placement worth 15 billion yuan ($2.15 billion), Russia's largest
oil producer Rosneft said it was gradually shifting to foreign trade
settlements in Russian roubles and national currencies of 'friendly'
countries. While Russia's largest gold producer Polyus issued bonds
denominated in the Chinese yuan worth 4.6 billion yuan (670 million
dollars), the country's aluminium producer Rusal tapped the yuan bond
market on the Moscow Exchange"

---

