# Week 51 

Jane's Defence: "Indian Air Force (IAF) combat jets have been
scrambled several times in the last few weeks in the country's
northeastern borders in response to growing tensions with China, a
defence source confirmed"

---

Why the rise? The "shitshow" in Libya opened the floodgates (Kaddafi
died 2011), about the same time Syrian civil war started, later we saw
the rise of IS, jihadi mofos everywhere went rabid, some in Africa no
doubt.

---

The CEIP article below seems to downplay the rise of terror attacks in
Africa btw 2012-2016, according to GTD counts went "from 114 attacks
and 1,944 fatalities in 2006, to 2,051 attacks and 13,182 fatalities
in 2016". I checked GTD (all incidents, all deaths, monthly, ends
2020-06), there is a spike. I'd call the increases significant. Since
2016 numbers went down now they are lower. See [post](../../2019/05/confstats.html#gtdafrica).

[[-]](https://carnegieendowment.org/2018/02/09/do-terrorist-trends-in-africa-justify-u.s.-military-s-expansion-pub-75476)

---

I really wanted Russia part of this clean fuel transition; before the
war Putin told visiting Italian businessman on clean ammonia that RU
could be number one exporter of the stuff; then everything went to
shit. Pity.

---

H2 Central: "Gasgrid – Six [European] partners have signed a
cooperation agreement to develop Nordic – Baltic Hydrogen corridor"

---

Passenger rail in the US vs Europe via @henrihorn@mastodon.energy

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FkV9hUVXoAAnBa-?format=jpg&name=small)

---

TFI Global: "Greek shipping companies have devised a smart plan to
evade European sanctions. From the Russian port of Kavkaz which lies
on the north of the Black Sea, Greek ships have loaded oil from the
Russian ships. The move effectively camouflaged Russian oil. Greece
ships were also engaged in ship-to-ship transfers. Greece has earned
billions of dollars of revenue from this exercise"

---

H2 View: "Fortescue Future Industries (FFI) signed a framework
agreement with the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Azerbaijan to
jointly explore up to 12GW of renewable energy and green hydrogen
projects"

---

That would be a salt-cavern fyi; apparently the area is rich with such
formations

The Guardian: "The energy company SSE has begun work to develop an
underground cavern in east Yorkshire to store hydrogen, aiming to
stockpile the renewable source of power for when the freezing,
windless conditions experienced in the last week occur in future.

The project will produce hydrogen using renewable energy in a
35-megawatt electrolyser which will be stored in a cavern the size of
St Paul’s Cathedral located a mile deep at an existing SSE site in
Aldbrough on the Yorkshire coast"

via @Noevanhulst@mastodon.social

---

Most of the Snyderverse actors were great picks; Momoa, Cavill; maybe
they'll be back in some form some day - JM wants to be a bad guy?
Cavill too, a future, or different version of the character..  DC has
massive cannon, creates options.

---

"I usually find the English language painfully boring, but then I
found out someone invented a term for 'fear of palindromes' and
it's...  aibohphobia"

via @PaulKirschner@mastodon.online

---

Chemistry World: "A combined desalination–electrolysis system that can
produce green hydrogen directly from seawater has been developed by a
team in China...  Following successful laboratory trials, the team
were keen to demonstrate the practicality of this approach at scale
and installed a demo device in Shenzhen Bay. The compact unit ran for
an initial test period of 133 days producing over a million litres of
hydrogen without any evident corrosion of the catalyst or increase in
impurities"

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FkRH8YnWYAIg6qV?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

A whole day of radio in US, 1939

[[-]](https://tilde.zone/@ftrain/109527326556327731)

---

Messi finally has his World championship. Great. That first penalty
was a bit iffy but, hey, still a world class team; excellent work.

---

The Herald: "Ministers have unveiled a plan to help Scotland become a
world leader in hydrogen production which they say could generate up
to £25 billion a year and provide more than 300,000 jobs.

The blueprint, published yesterday, sets out the sets they will take
to help meet the target of producing a sixth of the country's power
needs from hydrogen by 2030, some 5 Gigawatts.

A further goal is to produce 25 Gigawatts of hydrogen by 2045 - the
year the Scottish Government want the county to be net zero"

---

Smart how they compared different items on a multivariable plot; each
variable is a corner, better/worse numeric values bring you further or
closer to the center, you want the best item to be on the outside, a
connected ring envoloping all the others in that web, (clearly DBT in
this plot).

---

Comparison of different LOHC base compounts, via @hydrogenLOHC

Yellow: Toluene

Orange: NEC (N-ethyl carbazole)

Blue: DBT (dibenzyl toluene)

[[-]](lohc-compare.jpeg)

---

Pretz - Red Light For Go \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/_KMFsq_6N6A)

---

Compressed H2 is ok for short trips that can be made frequently due to
max capacity, it looks suitable for eg Oz-Japan not as much for
SA-Japan. I made some calcs below for 40 trips / year and a fleet of
20 ships, using 250 bar H2 having 700 kwh/m3,

```python
capacity = 120000 #m3
print ("Single ship %0.1f MW" % ((ship * 700) / (365*24*1e3)))
ann_trips = 40
print ("Fleet capacity %0.1f GW" % ((20 * ann_trips * capacity * 700) / (365*24*1e6)))
```

```text
Single ship 9.6 MW
Fleet capacity 7.7 GW
```

---

H2 Central: "Provaris Energy Obtains World First Design Approval For
Compressed Hydrogen Carrier From [American Bureau of Shipping]"

---

I wonder if RU, CH also support this measure who gets the chit? 

---

That is welcome. Germany needs a seat too, Asia Minor (have to push
for the homie), and Latin America.

VOA Africa: "Biden expressed support for Africa's bid, among others,
to have a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council"

---

*Blood Father*, wonderfully done, great story. Almost all roles had the perfect
actor playing it.

---

[Wires vs Pipes](../../2019/03/wirespipes.html)

---

"@GutoOwenH2

The true test of an energy system is not the easy stuff but the
worst-case scenario. Resilience being the 1ary metric. The Herculean
efforts of the grid engineers is a failure of the system. And the
Pathé News-style spin would be laughable, if it was not so
serious. It's 2022"

---

"@DickWinchester

This must be nearly a week now and yet there are still some who insist
electrification is the way forward when we know hydrogen can work so
much better for people"

---

The grid, electric lines even look bad, crooked.. 

---

BBC: "Still 1,600 Shetland properties without power.. Some homes on
the west side of Shetland's mainland may not have power back until
Monday.. About 150 engineers are now battling snow and ice to rebuild
Shetland's overhead power lines and reconnect properties to the
network"

[[-]](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-north-east-orkney-shetland-63992391)

---

H2 Central: "[EU] Deal Reached on New Carbon Leakage Pricing
Instrument to Raise Global Climate Ambition, Scope Includes Hydrogen"

---

Energy.gov: "Biden-Harris Administration Announces $750 Million To
Accelerate Clean Hydrogen Technologies"

<img width="340" src="twimg/FkP5aBFXoAMaFzo.jpg"/>

[[-]](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-750-million-accelerate-clean-hydrogen-technologies	)

---
