# Week 7 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">800+ Hydrogen Fuel Cell Buses Serve Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games<a href="https://t.co/Dlv9pbGQUp">https://t.co/Dlv9pbGQUp</a> <a href="https://t.co/MdK9GKlYvG">pic.twitter.com/MdK9GKlYvG</a></p>&mdash; Chinabuses (@chinabusescom) <a href="https://twitter.com/chinabusescom/status/1491589507547680768?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 10, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

H2 View: "easyJet: Hydrogen flights can’t come soon enough.. 'When
we.. looked back a few years ago, we realised clearly that the climate
emergency is coming our way and that we needed to address our
sustainability issue – and we knew that our passengers care about that
as well..

It was about the time when we started to see the first electric cars,
the Tesla vehicles.. and there was expectation that everything would
go electric. However, once we got into the detail and the physics and
the science behind electric, it became clear that battery-powered
aeroplanes were not going to have sufficient energy density to power a
large commercial aircraft'"

---

H2 View: "Major green hydrogen infrastructure system proposed for Los
Angeles.. SoCalGas wants to develop what it says will be the US’
largest green hydrogen infrastructure system to deliver clean,
reliable energy to the city of Los Angeles"

---

H2 Fuel News: "CeraPhi Energy and Climate Change Ventures (CCV)
recently announced that they are partnering on a project that will
produce green hydrogen using geothermal energy to power the process"

---

And the tech that can do long-distance, air flight, heavy-duty, will
end up doing it all

H2 View: "Transitus Energy has received new funds that will enable the
company to scale its operations in the UK and Thailand in order to
support the production of blue hydrogen... Jack Peck, CEO of Transitus
Energy, said, 'Hydrogen will be our best chance of reaching Net Zero
carbon targets, because hydrogen decarbonises those parts of the
economy that electrification cannot meet. Hydrogen is especially
suitable for domestic and industrial heating, long distance
transportation, industrial manufacturing, shipping, air travel, and
power balancing'"

---

H2 View: "Nel electrolyser order pipeline stands at 22GW"

---

H2 View: "A creative new method to produce sustainable hydrogen from
natural gas or biogas has received a $3.4m backing by the European
Union to scale the technology... Developed by Norway-based SEID, the
Project ColdSpark technology produces hydrogen in a low temperature
and pressure environment unlike other high-temperature pyrolysis
techniques"

---

CNBC: "German power firm RWE has signed an agreement with Neptune
Energy to develop a green hydrogen demonstration project in the Dutch
North Sea, targeting an electrolyzer capacity of 300 to 500
megawatts.. [and use an] existing pipeline used to funnel the hydrogen
to shore. The pipeline’s capacity ranges between 10 to 12 gigawatts,
the companies said.

'The energy transition can be faster, cheaper and cleaner if we
integrate existing gas infrastructure into new systems,' Lex de Groot,
who is managing director of Neptune Energy in the Netherlands, said"

---

H2 View: "NEOM’s $5bn industrial complex to manufacture heavy-duty
hydrogen fuel cell stacks"

---

H2 View: "BorgWarner to decarbonise European off-road mobility with
its hydrogen injector system.. In a bid to support the growing
hydrogen sector in Europe, BorgWarner has expressed today.. plans to
expand its efforts in hydrogen combustion technologies with its
injection system"

---

"9.5GW integrated renewable hydrogen hub plans unveiled for Spain"

---

H2 View: "A brand-new US fuel cell and green hydrogen electrolysis
research and development centre will be operational in the Greater
Rochester area, New York, next quarter"

---

Afro Celt Sound System - Release \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/_xuGqoB9gG4)

---

"@tpcollingsworth

We sued Apple, Tesla and others for using DRC cobalt mined by children
who are often killed in the mines. Despite boasting of their
"policies" against child labor, they convinced a judge they have no
responsibility for the child miners. We have appealed"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/tpcollingsworth/status/1479141028628160513)

---

The Mandarin: "[AU] PM tells NSW government ‘no’ for proposed offshore
petroleum exploration.. Scott Morrison has denied the permit required
for the proposed offshore petroleum exploration permit"

---

Offshore is too risky. Am fine with fossil as long as wildlife is not
harmed. For NG, no flaring, no fracking. 

"[Haaland's DOI's] highest-profile action so far has been
November’s auction of oil and gas drilling leases in the Gulf of
Mexico, the largest in the Gulf’s history, justified by spurious
logic. The department claimed it was compelled, hands tied, to hold
the sale due to an earlier court ruling that reversed the pause on new
drilling permits on public lands in the Gulf. In August, a memo filed
by the Department of Justice contradicted that assertion, finding that
the government was not, in fact, forced to issue new permits...

Among those top-level aides is David Hayes, special assistant to the
president for climate policy. A BigLaw alum from the firm Latham &
Watkins, Hayes first served under Bill Clinton’s interior secretary,
Bruce Babbitt, and then eventually as the Senate-confirmed deputy
secretary of the interior under Clinton. After spending the Bush years
at Latham, he returned [to the department... ] where he was the deputy
secretary of the DOI [.. during] the Deepwater Horizon spill"

[[-]](https://prospect.org/environment/a-look-inside-interior/)

---

No more transportation of fossil

"‘One of the worst things I’ve seen’: Tanker truck carrying 9,000
gallons of gas bursts into flames after crash [in Long Island, NY]"

---

Carbon increase in the atmo continued in January, YoY increase as
percentage is plotted, notice the acceleration of the increase.

[[-]](../../2015/08/temp-increase.md#carbon)

---

Most of the leaks are at end-user and transmission level. Regulation
can clamp down on the source easily, the rest is very hard as we found
out during the Volkswagen emission cheating scandal.

"@justdanfornow

Gas is not clean. Fugitive methane emissions are a climate menace.

Time for a boost of this incredible [graphic](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EiuaeZPVoAEckhC?format=jpg&name=medium)"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/justdanfornow/status/1309310657611706368)

---

Cool

"@KyleMorgenstein couldn’t sleep last night, so I derived E=mc^2"

[[-]](https://mobile.twitter.com/KyleMorgenstein/status/1493637977414774784)

---

WSJ: "No More Insider Trading in Congress.. The current penalties are
so small that lawmakers hardly take them seriously."

---

The Mark Duval Big Band - The Race Machine \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/0taq78DElkY)

---

The Guardian: "Workers in Belgium now have the right to ask their
employers for a four-day workweek. The Belgian government on Tuesday
passed the reform, along with a bundle of other revisions to the
country's labor laws. ... Employees requesting a four-day workweek
will be expected to work longer hours but won't lose any salary"

---

"@seanhecht

Difficult situation on campus. Traffic jam of automated food delivery
robots, apparently all stuck behind a carelessly discarded scooter. I
just observed a couple of students clearing a path out of pity for the
robots. This is our future, I guess"

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FLm9DCbVUAAIw_I?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

"As Omicron Surges, South Korea Eases Pandemic Interference.. With
Omicron spreading quickly, the government says it will focus on the
most vulnerable, while asking others to look after themselves at home"

---

"Saudi job advert for 30 female train drivers attracts 28,000 applications"

---

MLK and Mohammad Ali were polar opposites; one for integration, one
for segregation (yes there were non-whites for segregation). They were
apparently good friends behind the scenes, wasn't known at the time.

---

MLK never [talked about tolerence](https://youtu.be/5mKCqVRDTuI?t=224).

---

Whenever I hear "tolerance" it sounds like ghetto toleration to me..

---

Some think relating to any minority should be like interacting with
aliens.. They like to play *Dances with Wolves* with "foreign
cultures", so they try to create foreigners from Wakanda, "African
Americans" in their own countries, not humans just like them who
happens to be visually different. They want cultural ghettos they
can peek into and tell their friends about to prove how cool they are.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles seized the spotlight at the Beijing Winter Olympics, with over 1,000 vehicles ferrying athletes and staff around event sites. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://t.co/Tm1ngnUe9W">https://t.co/Tm1ngnUe9W</a></p>&mdash; Linde plc (@Lindeplc) <a href="https://twitter.com/Lindeplc/status/1493301770537340928?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 14, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@jyjault

China is using the Beijing Winter Olympics to showcase fuel cell vehicles"

---

"@RalphMorton

In the cold of the Winter Olympics, \#hydrogen is having its moment on the sun"

---

"@CHosford1

Some good news for fans of \#hydrogen \#fuelcell vehicles. @Bloomberg
reports the Beijing \#WinterOlympics is showcasing the technology and
fuel cell vehicles of all types"

---

Bloomberg: "China's Giant New Hydrogen Plant to Power Olympics Fuel
Cell EVs.. One of the world's largest green hydrogen plants has
started production to power.. fuel-cell vehicles during the Beijing
Winter Olympic Games"

---

Shapes with CSP panels.. Nice

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">More than 27000 <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/heliostats?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#heliostats</a> of SUPCONSOLAR delingha 50MW CSP plant spell out the Olympic Rings to create an unforgettable <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Olympic?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Olympic</a> moment! <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CosinSolar?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CosinSolar</a> cheers Chinese Athletes on! Go China! <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/TogetherForASharedFuture?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#TogetherForASharedFuture</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Beijing2022?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Beijing2022</a> <a href="https://t.co/fIaWvNWf3Y">pic.twitter.com/fIaWvNWf3Y</a></p>&mdash; Cosin Solar (@Cosinsolar) <a href="https://twitter.com/Cosinsolar/status/1492862970325389315?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 13, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Seaborg Technologies.. is working ...  to develop a molten salt
thermal energy storage technology that can store large amounts of
intermittent wind and solar power... 'Normally no chemist in their
right mind would look at anything as corrosive as sodium hydroxide,
Seaborg CEO, Troels Schönfeldt, told pv magazine. 'However, in the
development of our reactor, we needed to use sodium hydroxide and were
forced to develop these methods.'..

Sodium hydroxide can be produced at low cost from seawater as a
byproduct from chlorine production. Seaborg said this is six times
cheaper that standard salts used for storage"

[[-]](https://www.pv-magazine-india.com/2022/02/11/storing-solar-power-with-grid-scale-molten-hydroxide/)

---

"Events, constructions sites and off-grid infrastructure could soon run
on quiet, clean power...The EVERYWH2ERE project, funded by the FCH JU,
has designed light, low-pollution 25kWe and 100kWe generators with
proton-exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cells and safe pressurised
hydrogen technology"

---

Wind did not blow enough.. Never have been a huge fan of wind energy
TBH. 

"Energy prices in Europe have hit records due to a shortage of natural
gas and much lower than expected wind power output"

---

Blue, green, pink, turquoise.. all good. If in doubt refer to German
Greens. Or Australia. India. Russia. Japan (latest Oz-Japan blue H2
shipment was generated from coal). 

---

"India’s Reliance Industries has made a major statement of intent
revealing that it aims to become the world’s top blue hydrogen
producer with the repurposing of a $4bn plant for blue hydrogen"

---

"IEA_SolarPACES

SA’s largest renewable energy project Redstone Concentrated Solar
Power achieves first debt draw down"

---

Steve Keen is running for the Australian Senate? Vote for him!

---

Re-ran the code to plot the graphs, the 'tornado graph' is back.  See
bottom, the three-variable graph between unemployment rate, inflation
and debt.

[[-]](../../2018/02/keen_math.md)

---

At the height of US's logistic support campaign to Britain during
WWII, it was building one cargo ship a week, these so-called Liberty
ships, which were monstreous vessels, quickly put together but they
did the job, carried necessary cargo to Britain. US could do that - it
had the know-how, could creatively speed up a major industrial
process. 

[Link](https://youtu.be/8qDxqBvK3NA)

---

Military is a function of a country's underlying economy, and the
economy is a function of its inherent diversity. If a country is
producing nuts and bolts it can put them together for a weapon during
the time of war. If one is producing only bolts, they can't build
shit.. This is why Beckley's power measure is ingenious; it captures
all that through a simple base econ value.

---

It's not entirely correct to judge a country's power by looking at its
military size, its ships, guns. Military power is also a function of
what a country *can build* on demand, when all the chips are
down.. That is deeply related to its industrial, tech capacity, its
economy.

---

"SEC, states hit crypto lender BlockFi with $100M penalty"

---

The 'French Trump" is new but if its him against EM, voters will flock
to EM en masse. Say what you will about the FR politics, but they have
a long history of giving the far-right the cockblock.

---

Once I heard that "ala Kärcher" saying was still a hit in FR politics,
I thought 'they are still regurgitating old stuff from Sarko days over
there?'. That means nothing new is going on on the opposition
side... Macron might just win this thing.

--- 

Not sure the Great Game (from the 19th century), and the Cold War is
enough to explain the UK/RU animosity.. It is over-the-top in many
ways. They fought against Hitler, Napoleon together. And, ahem,
neither side wants a united, strong Europe. Maybe that's what changed
🤔

---

@mourner is V. Agafonkin, creator of the excellent Leaflet mapping
software. The dynamic maps I share on conflicts, equakes etc were
possible thanks to him. LL is open-source, of course.

---

Crazy seeing messages like this on my feed from someone thinking on
how to get out of Dodge 

"@mourner

Some of my friends still consider Vinnytsia as a backup option - as if
far enough away from possible vectors of attacks and at the same time
relatively close to Kyiv"

---

If as an answer to any Ukraine invasion Japan/US take those disputed
Kuril islands back for Japan, I will laugh my ass off. RU navy wld be
busy near Ukraine, the islands are on the other side of the world
basically, Japan always wanted them back, and I'm sure US would love
to put a big fat base there.

"A Russian anti-submarine destroyer chased off a U.S. submarine near
the Kuril Islands"

---

"Ukraine’s territorial integrity ‘not negotiable’, says Olaf Scholz
after Zelenskiy meeting"

---

Unforscene - The Arc \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/dTV-qMceLbg)

---

Pretty Lights - Future Blind \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/ag7p8w1bdoE)

---

Right woodcock is a bird isn't it..?

I bet the bird was named after a cock. And having wood..

---

Janet *Woodcock*? 😂

---

Everyone who lived in US knows, mailboxes would get filled with offers
from credit card companies. X% off! Great opportunity! Hurry now!

---

How do credit card companies end up as villains in a movie?
Easy. Perfectly fits with the stagnating "creditor-paradise" described
before. Stagnant wages, no inflation, low rates.. What does that lead
to? It creates an opportunity for a lender to borrow money cheap and
lending it, adding little interest, to the guy who has a low wage and
wants to buy stuff. Debt slavery follows. Unrest.

---

Ukraine, RU, military situation

[[-]](https://youtu.be/pzvbUpKU4eE)

---

Last post before the fuckin war, WWIII, nuclear winter

---

"2,500 tonne per year low-carbon hydrogen project to be developed in
Canada.. The hydrogen production project will utilise Hazer technology
with FortisBC supplying the natural gas feedstock required in order to
generate the hydrogen"

---

Going direct to H2 is an excellent pathway

---

DOE has lit on solar thermochemical water splitting. 

[[-]](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/hydrogen-production-thermochemical-water-splitting)

---

I actually joined a DOE Webinar and got that quote from the said expert. 🤓

---

CSP Expert: "There are several potential ways of generating hydrogen
using CSP. A number of researchers (and a couple of startup companies)
are developing 'solar thermochemical water splitting' which uses a
catalyst (like ceria) at very high temperature to split steam into
hydrogen and oxygen. CSP can also be integrated with high temperature
steam electrolysis (using solid oxide electrolysis cells) to
electrolytically split water at higher efficiencies than typical PEM
electrolyzers"

---

If Bulgaria spends four times as Sweden spends on heating, this means
their insulation is probably four times worse. Likely true for many
countries in the world. Fix that, cut emissions by 20%. Blend 20% to
existing natgas infra, another 10%.

---

That sounds right

"Buildings account for 36% of EU GHG emissions and 40% of its energy
use: energy efficiency is the most cost-effective method of reducing
their emissions.'.. Innovative SMEs based in the EU are developing a
range of solutions for a more energy-efficient building stock...
[such as a]dvanced low-carbon materials, including high-performance,
unobtrusive insulation techniques"

[[-]](https://www.cleantechforeurope.com/blog-posts/energy-efficiency-policy-proposals-from-the-eu-innovation-community)

---

Nearly 40% of energy use cannot possibly be causing 20% of the
emissions. 

"Heating, cooling is responsible for 20% of GHG emissions"

---

H2 View: "US Senators discuss clean hydrogen at an energy
committee.. US Senator Joe Manchin has discussed the positive impact
clean hydrogen could have on the domestic economy.. 'That is why I
made research, development, and demonstration of these technologies a
central part of the Energy Infrastructure Act..  In that bill, we fund
$9.5bn in research, development, and demonstration of clean hydrogen
and we task the Department of Energy to develop a national strategy
and roadmap to get us to a clean hydrogen economy'"

[[-]](https://www.h2-view.com/story/us-senators-discuss-clean-hydrogen-at-an-energy-committee)

---

Doubling nuke plants globally sound far-fetched.. Too many are freaked
out about them; first they'll say 'yeah a GW level nuke plant sounds
great man!'. But you ask if they want it in their backyard, near their
city, they go 'aw man, like, no, how about the neighboring state,
they'll be fine with that.. not here'

---

"EU sanctions would target Russia’s financial and energy sectors if
Moscow opts to invade Ukraine, EU Commission chief Ursula von der
Leyen said Friday"

---

There were gazillion different ways of saying what he said that in a
debate. You say 'we'll look into the issue', 'I hear some of the
concerns of the parents' blah blah..  invite them in, even include
them somehow.. But then keep teaching the truth.

That's not what this mucker did. He blew a fuse, got all mad, bcz the
real issue is there were two people on that debate connected to the
Carlyle Group, they have nothing else to disagree on, so the Dem
libtard gets triggered. The situation could easily be deflected,
instead TM gave the other side ammunition for culture war. But guess
what - in culture wars Reps have a chance too, so he had his ass
handed to him, proving once again the bizarre Dem moderate centrism
has a long-term electability problem.

"McAuliffe stood for truth in the debate with Youngkin, he should be supported"

---

This is while FR is opening up.. ? 

"French Demonstrators Converge on Paris, Inspired by Canadian Trucker
Protests"

---

Dual Systems - Enjoy Your Trip \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/5Y0oPDufTs8)

---

Roddenberry was a combat pilot in WWII. As a civilian his plane
crashed in Syria due to engine failure he pulled passangers to safety
from burning fire. He was not a mediocre shitlib boomer watching civil
rights protests on TV getting stoned on a bong while getting a blowjob
and thinking if he was ever on the board of one of those bloodsucking
big corporations one day he'd like to see some 'diversity'
there.. Those sisters in the protest looked hot!

---

Boomer still talking shit on the great G-Rod

---

DIS stock fall pre-Feb might have priced in the Q4 fails, which showed
up in the gross profit. Later the perception improved. I'd watch Q1,
if lower GPM, problem.

---

Revenue growth fine, gross profit margin doesn't look great - DIS
spending too much on non-profitable projects? 🤔 IMO last quarter saw
some triumphs, but also a lot of misses. 

---

GP, TR in millions usd


```python
import pandas as pd, yf
df = yf.get_income('DIS')
pd.set_option('display.max_columns', None)
print (df[['grossProfit','totalRevenue','grossProfitMargin']])
```

```text
Breakdown  grossProfit totalRevenue grossProfitMargin
endDate                                              
2021-04-03        5831        15613           37.3471
2021-07-03        5789        17022           34.0089
2021-10-02        6193        18534           33.4143
2022-01-01        2196        21819           10.0646
```

---

How are the latest Disney financials?

---

Politico: "Masks off? Democrats try for a pandemic pivot.. The party's
governors are ditching them. Its swing-state lawmakers are ready to
follow"

---

A whole 50 basis points? Nooo--o-o-o-ooooo! Dont take away our punch bowl!

CNBC: "U.S. inflation data... means the next Fed rate hike could be as
aggressive as 50 basis points, said Nathan Sheets, global chief
economist at Citi Research"

---

Jane's Defence: "Japan, US hone combined naval expeditionary
capabilities at Exercise ‘Noble Fusion'"

---

"Indonesia orders 42 Rafale fighters [from France]"

---
