# The Inheritance of Rome

An interesting book by Chris Wickham: The Inheritance of Rome. The
author analyzes the time period of 400-1000 AD, the so-called "Middle
Ages" or "Dark Ages". Wickham concludes that the reason Middle Ages
were labeled "dark" (or "middle") is due to a modernist, nationalist
reading of the past. This mentality identifies strongly with the
centralized Roman Empire, and consideres its collapse a bad
thing. However, the author argues, the romantic view of Rome, a place
of justice and near mythic qualities, did not exist. Just the
opposite, it was a time when violence was commonplace, even seen as
entertainment (as in gladiator games). If you did not belong to the
elite, violent punishment could be doled out to you in public in a
most "barbaric" way possible. There was (of course) slavery and the
society rife with corruption. On the issue of historical and
archeological research the book's message is more hopeful.

It states research on Middle Ages has vastly improved due to a sea
change in how such studies are now pursued, especially in
archeology. Traditional archeology was mostly about unearthing,
categorizing "pots and pans", new approach looks at the spatial
configuration of the artifacts, sites and the many relationships that
can be hypothesized from them. New approach puts greater focus on
economic and social issues that lead to better understanding of this
age.On this we add -- it is quite normal that modernist mentality
secretly romanticizing Rome. Modernity is really a historical
aberration (it lasted only few hundred years after all), but
unfortunately its adherents saw the period as "final", or "the end",
which later pushed them to justify its existence. So these people
looked into their past, trying to find another period that was
similar, as maximalist and as centrist as their own. And voila: they
found exactly what they were looking for in Rome.

