# The Sharing Economy

Fast Company article

[..] Gorenflo is a leading proselytizer of a global trend to make
sharing something far more economically significant than a primitive
behavior taught in preschool. Spawned by a confluence of the economic
crisis, environmental concerns, and the maturation of the social web,
an entirely new generation of businesses is popping up. They enable
the sharing of cars, clothes, couches, apartments, tools, meals, and
even skills. The basic characteristic of these you-name-it sharing
marketplaces is that they extract value out of the stuff we already
have. Many of these sites depend on millennials disenchanted by the
housing bubble and the banking crisis, or uninterested in traditional
icons of success such as house or auto ownership. But the number of
people who have quietly begun tapping in is impressive: Already, more
than 3 million people from 235 countries have couch-surfed, while 2.2
million bike-sharing trips are taken each month. Contends Rachel
Botsman, coauthor of the recently published What's Mine Is Yours: The
Rise of Collaborative Consumption: "This could be as big as the
Industrial Revolution in the way we think about ownership."

The evolution of the social web, explains Botsman, first enabled
programmers to share code (Linux), then allowed people to share their
lives (Facebook), and most recently encouraged creators to share their
content (YouTube). "Now we're going into the fourth phase," says
Botsman, "where people are saying, 'I can apply the same technology to
share all kinds of assets offline, from the real world.' [..] The
central conceit of collaborative consumption is simple: Access to
goods and skills is more important than ownership of them.

The earliest of these marketplaces, like Freecycle and CouchSurfing,
encouraged the exchange of goods among peers for free. But the latest
sharing platforms are anchored in commerce. They have the potential to
amass a new ecosystem of entrepreneurs, just as eBay once aggregated
fragmented buyers and sellers into a global online
marketplace. Gartner Group researchers estimate that the peer-to-peer
financial-lending market will reach $5 billion by 2013.

---

Nice development... BTW, Marxist morons should think twice before
celebrating, since this has nothing to do with disappearance of the
free market, it has everything to do with the collapse of
modernity. One-size-fits-all approaches to "using items (as in owning
them)" is disappearing. People on the go, (a side effect of 3rd wave)
need more flexible arrangements to use things, and more and more the
new generation is finding out what is essential for living and what is
not.

People who move after a long time are always surprised to discover how
much junk they collected in their house, let's think about that and
understand that the new generation does this much more frequently now
and therefore has a better understanding of the issue of ownership in
21st century.

Markets are good at allocation of resources, and allocation of unused
resources through these new scheduling, record keeping systems powered
by the Internet is a shining example of this.

Very nice.
