# Week 22

Food Processing: "Kellanova UK Factory Makes Cereals With Hydrogen
Instead of Natural Gas.. A government-funded demonstration project
last August used the cleaner-burning fuel to power the toasting oven
at the factory, lowering the plant’s carbon emissions"

---

"@waldoj@mastodon.social

Somebody posted the source code to the IRS’s Direct File to GitHub"

[[-]](https://github.com/IRS-Public/direct-file)

---

Politico: "Trump goes after Leonard Leo and the Federalist Society in
fury over court ruling.. Trump’s attack came after the U.S. Court of
International Trade struck down his tariffs..

The blame, Trump said, lay with the Federalist Society... 'I am so
disappointed in The Federalist Society because of the bad advice they
gave me on numerous Judicial Nominations,' he wrote. 'This is
something that cannot be forgotten!'"

---

News Wise: "One approach to solar hydrogen generation uses materials
called metal oxides, including one that combines the elements bismuth
and vanadium. Scientists demonstrated that higher temperatures in the
electrolyte surrounding cells increase the activity of a
bismuth-vanadate electrode by 40%."

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/149/485/134/original/e762e8e853fd8fb4.png'/>

---

NS News: "District of North Vancouver grants permits for $140M
hydrogen plant.. The liquefaction plant in North Van's Maplewood
neighbourhood will be the largest of its kind in Western Canada"

---

Sussex Bylines: "Why has Sangita Myska (LBC) not been on the air since
interviewing Israeli Government spokesman, Avi Hyman, in April?..

In the UK, we celebrate having a free press. News that is fettered to
a particular view point is more accurately considered
propaganda... Most readers would be horrified to think that our news
outlets are censored if they stray from a particular line, especially
if the line to be taken is dictated by a foreign state.

In the middle of April, Myska interviewed.. Hyman. Many news sources
had reported that Israel had attacked Iran’s consulate in Syria and,
two weeks later, that Iran had launched 200 drones and missiles at
Israel in retaliation.

Myska referred to the convention that consulates and embassies are
considered sovereign territories of their Government, and asked Hyman
whether Israel’s actions had therefore escalated an already fragile
situation. Hyman took issue with the question, specifically Myska’s
use of the term consulate, despite her simply referring to what had
been reported widely elsewhere. Following that interview, Myska has
not been on air..

As recently as 5 May, the Al-Jazeera channel was shut down in
Israel. International Federation of Journalists general secretary,
Anthony Bellanger, said: 'Banning journalists and shutting down
broadcasters are moves straight from the despot’s playbook'"

---

"@GeofCox@climatejustice.social

The EU is Israel's biggest market, but is now moving to suspend its
preferential trade arrangements.  Human rights and respect for
international law are legally “essential elements” of the EU-Israel
agreement (article 2).  The suspension requires the support of 15 out
of 27 states (which it already has) but also the support of states
representing 65% of the EU population. This means one at least of
Germany or Italy has to move to support it.

Please ask your German and Italian contacts to lobby for this."

---

Politico: "On Chinese student visa rollback, MAGA scores another
victory over tech"

---

Reuter: "Sinopec sets up $690 million hydrogen-energy-focused venture
capital fund "

---

"@ben@werd.social

Commuting into NYC. Call me crazy, but I think the solution to high
demand on public transit is to add more trains, not to raise
prices. It's infrastructure that has knock-on effects on the whole
economy, not a business that needs to be profitable in isolation."

---

The Lever: "Trump May Let Private Equity Rob Your Retirement.. The
president may soon grant a longtime industry wish and hand over
Americans’ retirement plans to private equity."

---

Terrible.. Terrible.. 

ABC Oz: "Should first home buyers be able to use their [retirement
fund] superannuation to buy a house?..  The [Liberal Party] scheme
proposes that Australians should be allowed to take up to $50,000, or
40 per cent, of their superannuation fund to buy their first
home. Currently, superannuation funds are largely locked away from
people, until they reach retirement age in their 60s and can start
using them. The idea behind this is to make Australia less reliant on
the pension"

---

Truly sad.. Don't tax the rich, but have people work longer.. In a
world where multigenerational mortgages are being discussed I bet soon
someone will find a way for you to work after death.. Generating
electricity with your decomposing corpse maybe? 24/7 well-paying job!

Semafor: "Denmark raises state retirement age to 70"

---

The Lever: "Billionaires want Dems to talk about democracy, tout
'abundance,' and play dead. But anti-oligarch politics is the only way
to fight Trump.."

---

TAC: "Trump Will Walk Away From Ukraine.. And that’s a good
thing. 'This is not my war,' stated President Donald Trump
emphatically to a dubious —nay, hostile— White House Press Corps when
asked about the potential outcome of negotiations with Russia over
ending the Ukraine War... the president was essentially acknowledging
that he had no real leverage over Russia to get them to end the
war. So, rather than needlessly drag out this hopeless conflict (for
the NATO side of the proxy war with Russia), where 5,000 young men die
every week, Trump is readying to cut his, and America’s, losses"

---

.. and of course if too many (wealthy) people buy REITs, or mREITs
they would be contributing to rising housing prices. This is how
median home now costs nearly half a f**ing million dollars. The
uber-wealthy did that to you America. Know thy enemy.

---

There are even REIT **ETF** instruments, you don't have to buy REIT
stock, you buy shares of a REIT ETF that buys those stocks. There are
trillions in REIT and related instruments.

---

"A REIT is a company that owns, operates, or finances income-producing
real estate REITs enable [investors] to benefit from owning shares in
valuable real estate, and having access to dividend-based income and
total returns... mREITs (or mortgage REITs) don’t own real estate
directly, instead they finance real estate and earn income from the
interest on these investments"

---

What is this talk about real-estate being hard to invest in? It is easy.
Investors can just buy a REIT

---

Notice the first serious coup attemp against a sitting president in US
was arranged by businessmen and the wealthy. They are the true
gangsters in America. The surface state.

---

Rolling Stone: "The plot against American Democracy that isn’t taught
in schools..  In an excerpt from *Gangsters of Capitalism*, Jonathan
M. Katz details how the authors of the Depression-era 'Business Plot'
aimed to take power away from FDR and stop his 'socialist' New Deal"

[[-]](https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/coup-jan6-fdr-new-deal-business-plot-1276709/)

---

Wiki: "The Business Plot, also called the Wall Street Putsch and the
White House Putsch, was a political conspiracy in 1933, in the United
States, to overthrow the government of President Franklin
D. Roosevelt"

---

Galloway: "The 0.1% have insulated themselves from the general public
with their own schools, health care, transportation, security, and
justice system. The members of this rarefied class are unfazed by the
chaos unfolding outside their gated properties... They’re invested in
hedge funds and fine art, not in the future of America. With the means
to hire shrewd defense attorneys and aggressive PR firms that
weaponize social media bots, the superrich are protected by the law,
but not bound by it. The lower 99% are bound by the law, but not
protected by it.

Living in their bubble, the extremely rich express shock and horror,
but opt not to rock the $300 million boat... With vast wealth comes
enormous influence. Money is a proxy for power. The top 0.1% have more
than five times as much wealth as the bottom 50%. Just 100 billionaire
families invested a record 2.6 billion in federal elections last year,
1 of every 6 dollars spent overall. These wealthy individuals could
galvanize politicians and push back against policies that undermine
American values, but they’re largely quiet...

In his first 100 days as president in 1933, Franklin D. Roosevelt
moved swiftly to lift the country out of the Great Depression,
building the foundation for his New Deal. As historians have observed,
he had another objective: to prove democracy works. But the
president’s programs sparked criticism from rich Americans, who
regarded him as a traitor to his class. A powerful group, including
the DuPonts, the founders of General Motors, and assorted oil
millionaires, launched the American Liberty League to fight back.

Today we again need some bold class traitors to address America’s
worsening inequalities"

---

Mfkers might patch that now (its maintainers can add a system prompt
so LLM reverts to an actual hand-coded counter algorithm), but the
fact that it could not now, could not reach to that point with its own
training, points to fundemantal deficiencies.

---

Just tested an LLM with a letter count task (e.g. count how many 'a'
letters in some word). It failed miserably. The tech which supposedly
already surpassed human intelligence, nearing "singularity", cannot
count letters in a word.

---

That was the Freudian slip per excellence. The word "overload" instead
of "reset". Turned out to be prescient.

---

[Link](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/lk3o79oc2o4q9aj4n4rnd/reset_lavrov_clinton.gif?rlkey=6wggae21oyvno1tq0biwlloih&st=5ltxkb4a&raw=1)

---

The reset button moment.. Classic \#RU \#US

---

Or, mentioned before, Tony Blair / Farage one-sided smackdown.. TB
starts "there are three groups of people..", he is like fidgeting with
his tie or something, as if to say he is really *busy with that* and
doing the bashing on the side, just a drive-by smackdown. It is iconic
knowing what happened later, Brexit. Farage, the humiliated man,
became the victor.

---

You have to know your iconic moments.. representative slices in
time.. Like when Biden started to spaz out during that debate and
Trump did a double-take? Like that.

---

Why would Al Gore institute UHC? All signs before the election were he
would be another economic-right social-left shitlib Democrat in the
mold of Bill Fucking Clinton (he debated Ross Perot on NAFTA, some
don't seem to recall).

The episode does sound like an Utopia in the sense that an
establishment Democrat pushing for universal health care. That is just
crazy.

---

"In [a *Family Guy* episode] Peter creates an alternate timeline,
where Al Gore is the President of the United States instead of George
W. Bush, which results an Utopian world. He institutes universal
health care"

---

There could be alien UFOs.. I only said all data I looked at so far
failed to present an obvious pattern whereby a conclusion jumps out at
you. Until that happens, or we see media proof other than grainy
videos, our current state is 'unconvinced'. Some earlier data analysis
is below.

[[-]](../../0119/2015/08/ufo.html)

---

E-douche is an overrated diva.. Let's also not forget who created this
cunt; Obama..  which proves he was an average president, meaning
anything he's done, any tech his admin pushed should be viewed with
suspicion, e.g.  battery electric cars.

---

Firstpost: "SpaceX's Starship spins out of control minutes after 9th
test launch, crashes over Indian Ocean"

---

The Guardian: "UK must impose sanctions on Israel to meet legal
obligations, say more than 800 lawyers"

---

Scheerpost: "Former Israeli PM: Enough Is Enough. Israel Is Committing
War Crimes.. Ehud Olmert is the former Israeli prime minister from
2006 to 2009... was a member of the Likud party from 1973 to 2006"

---

Informed Comment: "Siege Politics: By now, it should surprise no one
that Benjamin Netanyahu prefers the echo chamber of his own making to
the international chorus demanding accountability. The Israeli prime
minister, clinging to office as tenaciously as he clings to delusion,
has managed to place himself among the most cynically manipulative
leaders of our time, a man who governs not by vision, but by
vindictiveness."

---

"@zoul@boskovice.social

I’ve just realized how RADICAL it feels to open a Wikipedia app on my
phone and look up a topic without anyone trying to sell me something,
steal my data or hit me with random genAI nonsense. What have we done?"

---

LLM's attention "leaks", it is hard to have it focus on a given text,
on a given set of structured output. The reason must be they are
written to shoot the shit, they "dress to impress" they need to ramble
on, "creatively" answering questions as their reason for being is
chat, which makes them ill-suited for mission-critical tasks that
require structure, and repetitive accuracy.

---

"JCB secures full EU type-approval for pioneering hydrogen engine..
This means that JCB’s hydrogen engine has been approved for sale and
for use in machines and third-party OEM equipment in each of the 27 EU
member states, and all other territories recognising EU type-approvals
(e.g. EEA and EFTA territories). The EU type-approval certificate has
been issued in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 and certifies
JCB’s hydrogen combustion engine to prevailing EU Stage V emissions
norms"

---

Epstein's "suicide" was likely ordered by Trump.. That's why FBI is
keeping things hush-hush. There is no deep state.

---

A lot of these Epstein deaths seem to happen during Trump admin.

---

Hmmm 🤔 

"Virginia Giuffre, one of the most outspoken Jeffrey Epstein accusers,
has died by suicide"

---

Firstpost: "India approves building of 5th generation fighter plane"

---

CNBC: "Businesses are finding a workaround for tariffs — and it's
entirely legal.. The "first sale rule" is a concept in U.S. customs
law that allows importers to use the lowest cost of a good to
calculate duties"

---

NYT: "For months, Israel’s strongest allies had been reluctant to join
a wave of global censure against the war. Now, even the Trump
administration appears to be growing impatient"

---

Informed Comment: "Gaza 'a Gaping Wound on Humanity:' Spain Convenes
Int’l Conference to call for Arms Embargo on Israel"

---

The Star: "Retired Russian colonel and combat veteran Anatoliy
Matviychuk, who served in Afghanistan and Syria, breaks down the
military rationale behind Russia’s push to create a buffer zone along
its border with Ukraine.

'This won’t just be a demilitarized belt — it’s about shielding
Belgorod, Kursk, Bryansk, Crimea, Zaporozhye, Kherson and Donbass
regions from NATO artillery fire.'

Why 100 km?

'NATO-supplied long-range artillery can hit targets from 70 km. Add a
30 km safety margin — and you get a 100 km deep buffer,' the expert
explains"..

[Where?] Sumy, Chernigov, Dnepropetrovsk, and Kharkov regions —
territories bordering both the old and new Russian regions"

---

RT: "A new front: Russia expands into Ukraine to build a military
buffer zone.. Putin’s buffer zone aims to create space – both
literally and politically – from Ukraine’s firepower"

---

TAC: "Mike Johnson and Rand Paul Clash Over Budget Bill..  Paul
criticized the bill’s spending cuts as 'wimpy and anemic', warning
that the legislation would 'explode the debt'"

---

Aspects of Woke seem to rest on ignoring reality, making others accept
the subjective reality of a singular individual... In that these
viewpoints are extremely unscientific, carry that pungent smell of
Post Modernism.  Maybe in an era where science itself has lost its
connection to reality (multiverses, bing bangs that did not happen,
black holes that do not exist, particles that cannot be in two places
at once), we should not fault others to follow suit.

---

Old Dem shitlibs walking around like zombies.. Is this another type of
identity politics? One type says "I'm a non-binary gender-neutral
two-spirit, I believe it, so I am it, people and legislation needs to
treat me as such", maybe that extends to "I declare myself a 20-year
old, you treat me as such". 

---

Dems are looking on like fools while Reps are stealing left issues
from them (economic left, not social). Where is your principled stance
on anti-trust, inequality, corporate overreach?

---

CNN: "Around 40% of Walmart’s merchandise is imported, while roughly
half of Target’s and Home Depot’s products come from overseas...
Walmart.. was outspoken about the trade war impact, saying higher
tariffs will lead to higher consumer prices. That prompted a strong
reaction from Trump, who said Walmart should “eat” the cost. Days
later, Home Depot and Target tiptoed around price hikes from tariffs
during their own earnings calls."

---

NYT: 'Walmart should STOP trying to blame Tariffs as the reason for
raising prices throughout the chain,' Mr. Trump wrote on Truth Social,
his social media site. 'Walmart made BILLIONS OF DOLLARS last year,
far more than expected.' He called on Walmart, the nation’s largest
retailer, to 'EAT THE TARIFFS' and keep prices down. 'I’ll be
watching, and so will your customers,' he wrote."

---

Yahoo Finance: "Digging into Allstate’s recent financial statements,
Senator Josh Hawley questioned the company’s decision to reward the
C-suite after boosting revenue and profits while policyholders like
Migal struggled to get compensated for their losses"

---

Josh Hawley is really grilling that AllState guy.. 

---

\#Ukraine - 05/18 - 05/25

[[-]](ukrdata/map21.html)

---

*Fountain Of Youth*.. Not bad.. 

---

Blogmobly: "When the system forces you to code with a hallucinating
clown, eventually you stop resisting. You let him type. You let him be
'productive.' You check out. You surrender your brain to the noise and
just float... I [am] describing GitHub Copilot. Or Claude Codex. Or
OpenAI lmnop6.5 ultra watermelon. This isn’t about tools or
productivity or acceleration. It’s about the *illusion* of progress..

A real copilot, on a commercial airline.. know[s] the plane. The
systems.. done the simulations... [MS] Copilot isn’t that. It’s just
the ghost of a thousand blog posts and cocky stack-overflow posts
whispering, 'Hey, I saw this once. With my eyes. Which means it's good
code. Let’s deploy it.' Then.. the app hits production and the landing
gear won’t come down. If you let that ghost fly the plane, you deserve
the ball of flames you go up in"

---

TAC: "The Gen Z Right Is Pat Buchanan’s Lasting Legacy.. A new culture
of realism has prevailed among American youth, and it may finally put
to rest the conservative status quo... Their affinities lie not with
Reaganite optimism or Bush-era globalism, but with the sobering,
culture-first realism of Pat Buchanan. These are the heirs to the
original Buchanan Brigade, animated by a blend of cultural
traditionalism, economic nationalism, and a deep-seated skepticism
toward America’s post–Cold War trajectory"

---

Some want India to be the new attack vector into its own region.. 

---

During the past 50 yrs there's been conflict in Iran, Iraq, Syria,
Ukraine...  What is common to all of these countries? If we look at
the map and we notice the middle of all of those countries... It is
Gobble Gobble, doing the Wobble Wobble. Turkland. Was homie the
unknowing (!) attack vector, the battering ram reaching deep inside
this area..?

Anatolians had their reasons to include outsiders, the Anglo in this
region, historically the neighbor Russia was always feared, outsiders
from afar were allowed in and exercise influence in the region trying
to balance out Russia. But the cost of this involvement might have
been steep.

---

Effin businesses will do and say anything to justify their profits

---

WaPo: "Judge rejects claim chatbots have free speech in suit over teen’s
death... Google and Character.AI unsuccessfully argued that a
chatbot’s messages were protected by the First Amendment."

---

Earth.com: "Massive hydrogen reserves discovered beneath Earth’s mountains"

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/148/617/393/original/e82948fee14aac43.jpg'/>

---

The Lever: "MAGA dominance, brought to you by aging Dems. Today, the
House passed Republicans’ budget narrowly by a 215-to-214 vote —
meaning Democrats could have blocked the bill from moving to the
Senate if three of their voting members hadn’t died this session. That
includes Rep. Gerry Connolly of Virginia, who passed at 75 yesterday,
just hours before the vote. He’s joined by Rep. Raúl Grijalva of
Arizona, 77, and Rep. Sylvester Turner of Texas, 70. (Turner passed
after succeeding longtime Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, who died in office
last year at 74.) Eight members of Congress have died in office since
November 2022 — and all were Democrats"

---

Kash Patel has a dog who ate the Epstein files.. the ones that said he
was suicided..? That must be it...

---

What happened? Where is the deep state?

Fox News: "FBI bosses insist Jeffrey Epstein killed himself after
reviewing his file"

---

Informed Comment: "As US Pushes For Zero Enrichment, Iran Insists It
Won’t Give Up Nuclear Program"

---

