# Week 28

\#Ukraine 06/30 - 07/07

[[-]](ukrdata/map26.html)

---

Mondoweiss: "New UN report reveals the companies getting rich off
Israeli occupation and genocide.. While the report itself names a lot
of names, from states to corporations, banks, and universities,
Albanese concludes, “the entities named in the present report
constitute a fraction of a much deeper structure of corporate
involvement, profiteering from and enabling violations and crimes in
the occupied Palestinian territory.”

The report comes on the heels of two other major reports by Albanese
last year: the “Anatomy of a Genocide” from March 2024 and the
“Genocide as Colonial Erasure” in October 2024. In the latter,
Albanese identified how Israel was expanding its genocide from Gaza to
the West Bank."

---

F24: "Heatwaves and wildfires break out in Europe"

---

F24: "Trump to push Netanyahu for Gaza truce in crunch talks"

---

"@HarriettMB@beige.party

The UK has made a food agreement with the USA, so the UK will be
importing American foods which are contaminated with too many products
banned in the EU. Those ‘not for sale in the EU’ stickers on products
available in the UK governed six counties in Northern Ireland are
important.  Do not buy that stuff."

---

China Daily: "As a bus glides away from a station in Zhangjiagang,
Suzhou, eastern China's Jiangsu province, a faint wisp of steam rises
from its tailpipe and vanishes into the cool morning air. There's no
roar, no rumble, just the silent whoosh of progress.

Such a scene is an everyday life phenomenon in Zhangjiagang, where
hydrogen-powered public transport has become the new normal. Now, one
in every 10 city buses in Zhangjiagang runs on hydrogen.

For this compact port city nestled along the Yangtze River, once
synonymous with steel mills and freight yards, the quiet hum of
hydrogen buses signals an emerging industrial transformation — one not
only powered by coal or oil, but by hydrogen, the lightest and most
abundant element in the universe."

---

CleanTechnica: "New Green Hydrogen Project Targets Green Ammonia.. The
latest news about sustainable fertilizer comes from the UK-listed firm
ATOME. The company is planning to construct a new, $630 million USD
fertilizer facility in Paraguay, which will deploy green hydrogen to
produce ammonia-based fertilizer."

---

World’s first nuclear reactor producing 200 tons of hydrogen daily
launched in US.. Central to this architecture are Reversible Solid
Oxide Fuel Cells (RSOFCs), a dual-function technology capable of
generating electricity, hydrogen, and clean water simultaneously.

<img width='340' src='https://interestingengineering.com/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcms.interestingengineering.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2025%2F07%2FCanva-Photo-2025-07-02T193502.677-1.jpg&w=1200&q=75'/>

---

MEE: "Baku is leveraging the latest spat with Moscow to reduce Russian
influence in the region and potentially strengthen security
cooperation with Turkey"

---

MEE: "[RU/AZ] relations deteriorated.. after Russian police, during
the course of a murder investigation in Yekaterinburg, raided a house
and killed Azerbaijani-born brothers Ziyaddin and Guseyn Safarov,
injuring several others on Friday. A post-mortem conducted in
Azerbaijan found the brothers were actually tortured in police
custody. Baku responded strongly, first cancelling a visit by Russian
Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Overchuk, then suspending all planned
cultural events with Russian state and private institutions"

---

If you substitute Brics for Nato in your head while watching it's
fine. The story is good, the actors were great. Almost perfect
casting.

---

*Heads of State*, good movie but also blatant Anglo/NATO
propaganda. By "diversifying" the cast the mini psyop tried to soften
the blow but it is clear to see the parallels to real life figures.

---

That is a massive area

BBC: "Everglades National Park is a 1.5-million-acre wetlands
preserve on the southern tip of the U.S. state of Florida. Often
compared to a grassy, slow-moving river, the Everglades is made up of
coastal mangroves, sawgrass marshes and pine flatwoods that are home
to hundreds of animal species"

---

Trump visits 'Alligator Alcatraz', the next step in his immigration
crackdown.. The administration said alligators, crocodiles and
pythons in the surrounding wetlands would keep detainees from
escaping.

---

"@Victor@spore.social

A new gasification [process](https://www.chemengonline.com/this-biosolids-gasification-technology-also-destroys-pfas/)
designed for the disposal of biosolids is also capable of destroying
per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contaminants and it works
by using two high-temperature processing steps."

---

"@ravensrod@mstdn.social

When I were a lad we had proper terrorists, IRA, Bader Meinhof
etc. Todays politicians wouldn't know a terrorist organisation if it
formed it's own state and commited acts of genocide, while bribing
them to look the other way."

---

No Page and Brin did not invent Markov Chains, nor the eigenvec
calculation, that stuff was known since the 50s. They merely *applied*
given math, did not invent new math. And even for that much
"innovation" they were spoon fed by the government, their research was
done at Stanford on public's dime. The first Google ran on
`http://google.stanford.edu`. That's how it works, public funds your
shit, you make billions, later pay little or not tax to help the
public.

---

I literally got the same numbers

---

```python
import numpy.linalg as lin
P = np.array([[0, 4.0, 17.0, 29.0, 4.0],
              [42.0, 0, 23.0, 34.0, 8.0],
              [39.0, 27.0, 0, 23.0, 3.0],
              [28.0, 14.0, 5.0, 0, 0],
              [22.0, 18.0, 31.0, 44.0, 0]])

P =  P / P.sum(axis=1).reshape(1,len(P)).T
evals,evec = lin.eig(P.T)
# Bulls, Cavaliers, Pistons, Pacers, Bucks
evec[:,0]
```

```text
Out[1]: array([0.64516903, 0.33846416, 0.36006211, 0.576504  , 0.08483719])
```

---

So much code.. Isn't PR a simple eigenvector calculation?

---

This guy has sample data

[[-]](https://github.com/bnak/SportsRank)

---

Page Rank is another application of the same base technique. Create a
(sparse) "transition matrix" between pages, and imagined random user
browsing infinitely.. how frequently would each page be visited? For
sports an arrow (connection), its weight from A to B could be seen as
"how many times did A lose to B" then MC can give you projected loss
after infinite games.. Later you can deduce things like "A beats B, B
beats C, then it is likely A will beat C". A's "ranking" would be
higher than C.

---

I knew it.. Sports Ranking calculation with little game play data can
be done via Markov Chains... You could rank all teams.

---

I took out all the neural net shit out of the sciency part of my
tutorials into the "blog" part... Like they are part of the daily,
monthly brain farts issued, have some engineering, some how-to
recipe-like content, nothing more.. They can't be at the same level as
Euler's formulation of buckling. As such I feel no obligation to
maintain the code either. 

---

WION picked up on it too.. maybe they received some behind-the-scenes
info from India's intel (WION is ideologically friendly to the
governing BJP, so they could be a trusted channel to share such intel
with).

"Xi Jinping’s Disappearance Signals Power Shift In China | WION Newspoint"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/5J8yzg0PsZQ)

---

"Construction of hydrogen-specialized [Korean] hubs to start at year's
end.. The ministry is promoting construction of a hydrogen cluster
jointly with local governments such as those of Gangwon-do and
Gyeongsangbuk-do with an investment of some KRW 500 billion.

After concluding a feasibility study and basic construction plan last
year, work on the project like land purchase and design of the
facilities will begin this year. The main objective of the complexes
in the two Gangwon-do cities is formation of an industrial base for
the storage and transportation of liquid hydrogen.

In Donghae, construction of centers for industrial promotion and
safety tests of materials and components will begin in March next
year. An economic feasibility analysis for a hydrogen liquefaction
plant in Samcheok will be completed by July this year.

The specialized complex in Pohang, which will focus on the fuel cell
industry for power generation, will complete the purchase of land for
the construction of a performance evaluation center for fuel cell
components and materials and a system verification facility by August
to begin construction by year's end. The complex has also signed
investment agreements worth a combined KRW 149.2 billion with six
companies."

---

"Plug Power Stock Surges as It Sparks Clean Hydrogen Boom with Almost
$1.7B DOE Funding"

---

BBC: "Tax the wealthy, FM says after welfare rebellion.. Wales' first
minister has called for the wealthiest to be taxed more as the
Treasury considers how to deal with the fallout of the Commons welfare
rebellion. Labour pulled back from significant cuts to disability
benefit on Tuesday as government ministers feared a humiliating
defeat."

---

Al Jazeera: "UN Special Rapporteur Francesca Albanese’s report names
more than 60 companies said to play a role in ‘sustaining Israel’s
settler-colonial project’...  ‘For some, genocide is profitable’.. The
report, titled From economy of occupation to economy of genocide,
detailed what it described as “the corporate machinery sustaining
Israel’s settler-colonial project of displacement and replacement of
the Palestinians in the occupied territory”.

The report singled out companies, including arms manufacturers, tech
giants, heavy machinery companies and financial institutions, for
their “complicity” in Israel’s repression of Palestinians, from
sustaining Israeli expansion on occupied land to enabling the
surveillance and killing of Palestinians."

---

Jeremy Corbyn: "It's been a scare story all my life that somehow or
other the welfare state is too expensive..  Things only become too
expensive, it seems, when you’re helping people on low incomes or in
poverty. They never say it’s too expensive to spend money on weapons
and war."

---

TASS: "Yemen’s Houthis say they struck Israel’s Ben Gurion Airport with ballistic missile"

---
