# Week 25

Spread of chaos is the rule, under the camouflage of "Israel's right
to defend itself", and the general motto "never again" while making
boat loads of money for the US arms manufacturers and other commercial
interests. They have US congressmen on speed dial and on puppet
strings. The genocided became the genocider via the most brilliant
marketing campaign performed in modern history. The victimhood
arbitrage still works, its investors are "in the money", they are
making bank.

---

Muckers did not waste any time since then did they? "We have a safe
corridor. Let's use it".. Onwards to the next weapon usage (and
purchase) bonanza.

The National: "Israel has managed to establish 'air supremacy' over
Iran due to its dismantling of Syria’s missile defences in the weeks
following the collapse of the Assad regime, military analysts
[stated]"

---

<img width='340' src='https://www.earth.com/assets/_next/image/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcff2.earth.com%2Fuploads%2F2025%2F06%2F19142703%2Fclean-hydrogen-production_efficiency_catalysts_cobalt_1m-1400x850.jpg&w=1200&q=75'/>

New catalyst improves clean hydrogen production to 99.9%
efficiency.. Heng Liu of Tohoku University.. reports a
cobalt–molybdenum catalyst that turns nearly every electron into
hydrogen... Cobalt holds a sweet spot on the periodic table when it
comes to catalytic activity. It has just the right balance of electron
density to attract and release protons during hydrogen
production... When combined with molybdenum, the alloy forms a
conductive and stable surface that resists corrosion in alkaline
solutions. That durability is essential for keeping large-scale
electrolysis running without constant maintenance.

---

"'Plastic Becomes Hydrogen Under the Sun': South Korea Unleashes
Solar-Powered Breakthrough That Vaporizes Waste Into Clean Fuel In a
groundbreaking development, South Korean scientists have unveiled a
revolutionary system that transforms plastic waste into clean hydrogen
fuel using sunlight, offering a promising solution to global waste and
energy challenges"

---

One Company Under God

<img width='200' src='https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/b3/Flag_of_the_British_East_India_Company_%281707%29.svg/330px-Flag_of_the_British_East_India_Company_%281707%29.svg.png'/>

---

Wiki: "The flag of the East India Company is considered to have
inspired the 1775 Continental Union Flag, the first flag of the United
States, as the two flags were of the same design. This connection is
attributed to numerous sources. Benjamin Franklin of Pennsylvania once
gave a speech endorsing the adoption of the Company's flag by the
United States as their national flag. He said to George Washington of
Virginia, 'While the field of your flag must be new in the details of
its design, it need not be entirely new in its elements. There is
already in use a flag, I refer to the flag of the East India
Company'. This was a way of symbolising American loyalty to the Crown
as well as the United States' aspirations, like those of the East
India Company, to be self-governing. Some colonists also felt that the
Company could be a powerful ally in the American War of Independence,
as they shared similar aims and grievances against Crown tax
policies. Colonists therefore flew the Company's flag, to endorse the
Company"

---

RTO Insider: "Georgia Power Calls Largest-ever 50-50 Hydrogen Test a
Success..  Mitsubishi Turbine Reaches 283-MW Output"

---

Brooke Harrington: "As their wealth has grown, [tech libertard's]
long-standing opposition to government regulation has shifted toward a
more extreme, neo-reactionionary, and antidemocratic frame of
mind. Why should the 'fittest' men submit themselves to taxes,
regulation..? Why shouldn’t they be the ones in charge, if not here in
America then in their floating island 'network states' or on their
interplanetary colonies? And if pesky government interference
threatens the development of the miraculous tech that will allow these
things to come to pass, why shouldn’t the American government be
bought, infiltrated, and managed just like a tech startup, with total
corporate control and the 'fittest' guys at the top of the roster?"

---

\#Ukraine

[[-]](ukrdata/map24.html)

---
	
Hacker News: "They poison their own context. Maybe you can call it
context rot, where as context grows and especially if it grows with
lots of distractions and dead ends, the output quality falls off
rapidly. Even with good context the rot will start to become apparent
around 100k tokens (with Gemini 2.5). They really need to figure out a
way to delete or "forget" prior context, so the user or even the model
can go back and prune poisonous tokens."

---

Hacker News: "I had a case yesterday where opus [LLM] was trying to do
something with a library, and it encountered a build error. Rather
than fix the error, it decided to switch to another library. It then
encountered another error and decided to switch back to the first
library. I don’t think I’ve encountered a case where I’ve just let the
LLM churn for more than a few minutes and gotten a good result. If it
doesn’t solve an issue on the first or second pass, it seems to
rapidly start making things up, make totally unrelated changes
claiming they’ll fix the issue, or trying the same thing over and
over."

---

No more $\TeX$ for sci blogging.. Markdown and `pandoc` works great.

---

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/719/507/174/026/585/original/b444dda491091f6b.jpg'/>

---

Lenin: "Every society is three meals away from chaos"

---

CNBC: "Modi told Trump that the U.S. did not play a role in
de-escalating tensions between India and Pakistan."

---

CNBC: "'Tariff engineering' is making a comeback as businesses employ
creative ways to skirt higher duties"

---

Bannon: "The Iran War May Be the End of MAGA"

---

Fuckin Ted

---

They took a nice little tour all around Oz southern coast, even
violated EEZ few times, to send a message. It was a serious collection
of mil hardware on the sea, and a nuclear sub probably wasn't too far
behind, well, below.

Daily Mail: "[2025/02] Beijing delivers bombshell show of force off
Australia's largest city as Chinese warships are caught making
never-before-seen move.. Chinese military ships spotted [about 300 km]
off Sydney"

---

Taipei Times: "[2024/09] Japan sails first warship through Taiwan
Strait.. The New Zealand and Australian navies also sailed military
vessels through the Strait yesterday to assert the right of freedom of
navigation"

---

\#Werleman

[[-]](https://youtu.be/TdhKRfP-O4o?t=27)

---

"@jbiserkov@mas.to

Western economists are like court astrologers of King Capital who are
using complex science-looking mathematics to arrive at the conclusions
their patron wants."

---

Stiglitz, *Vanity Fair*: "[2011] Of the 1%, by the 1%, for the 1%..

Some people look at income inequality and shrug their shoulders. So
what if this person gains and that person loses? What matters, they
argue, is not how the pie is divided but the size of the pie. That
argument is fundamentally wrong. An economy in which most citizens are
doing worse year after year—an economy like America’s—is not likely to
do well over the long haul. There are several reasons for this.

[G]rowing inequality is the flip side of something else: shrinking
opportunity. Whenever we diminish equality of opportunity, it means
that we are not using some of our most valuable assets—our people—in
the most productive way possible. Second, many of the distortions that
lead to inequality—such as those associated with monopoly power and
preferential tax treatment for special interests—undermine the
efficiency of the economy. This new inequality goes on to create new
distortions, undermining efficiency even further"

[[-]](https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2011/05/top-one-percent-201105)

---

\#Stiglitz \#NovaraMedia

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/nPxjIWL-8Ck?start=162&end=380)

---

InsideHook: "A Startup Linked to Peter Thiel Wants to Build the 'Next
Great City' in Greenland.. Funded to the tune of $525 million, Praxis
aims to 'revitalize Western Civilization' through a techno-libertarian
city upon a hill"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

It would be much smarter to build hydrogen pipelines for energy
distribution instead. It will be repeat of of the fiber optics
revolution, which saved us from the same shortage of cables that an
all-copper Internet would've required."

---

Bloomberg: "There Aren’t Enough Cables to Meet Growing Electricity
Demand.. The energy transition, trade barriers and overdue grid
upgrades have turbocharged the demand for high-voltage cables."

---

"Solar hydrogen could be produced at 4.23$/kg in Saudi Arabia"

---


Bloomberg: "South Africa’s Public Investment Corp., the continent’s
biggest money manager, and two development institutions have pledged
$37 million to a fund for financing green hydrogen projects... The
Development Bank of Southern Africa and the Industrial Development
Corporation of South Africa will help finance the SA-H2 fund, which
blends public and private capital. It is managed by a partnership
between Hague-based Climate Fund Managers and Invest International, a
Dutch development finance institution."

---

"@simon@procrastodon.net

@blindbat84 There’s a massive outage across everything that powers
most of big tech. Let’s just take a moment to celebrate the fact that
we’re all speaking from tiny corners of the internet and they’re doing
just fine. :)"

---

TAP: "For 15 years now, engineers and quality control specialists have
implored regulators, journalists and airlines to take a closer look at
the 787 Dreamliner, Boeing’s first and only clean-sheet commercial
airplane designed from scratch since the company’s horrific 1997
merger with McDonnell Douglas. The smooth surface of the lightweight
composite fibers used to construct the airframe can conceal deadly
structural flaws, they warned. The non-union workforce that
manufactures the jets in South Carolina is unqualified to stand up to
“good old boy” bosses constantly pressuring them to ignore obvious
nonconformities, install malfunctioning parts and cut every corner
imaginable to get planes out the door, they asserted. Unsavory
subcontractors have exploited Boeing’s lax standards to litter the
assembly line with fake parts, they demonstrated."

---


"Multiplying like rabbits", that's a saying isn't it? A side effect
of that is I guess more meat production.

---

Sure rabbits are "adorable" but also a great source of protein it
turns out.. Rabbit meat is beneficial btw for more human metabolism
types than chicken meat. 

---

"Why rabbits are better than chickens"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/RtM7LyxO3fI)

---

"@MarkHoltom@mastodonapp.uk

'Years ago, anthropologist Margaret Mead was asked by a student what
she considered to be the first sign of civilization in a culture. The
student expected Mead to talk about fishhooks or clay pots or grinding
stones.  But no. Mead said that the first sign of civilization in an
ancient culture was a femur (thighbone) that had been broken and then
healed. Mead explained that in the animal kingdom, if you break your
leg, you die. You cannot run from danger, get to the river for a drink
or hunt for food. You are meat for prowling beasts. No animal survives
a broken leg long enough for the bone to heal.  A broken femur that
has healed is evidence that someone has taken time to stay with the
one who fell, has bound up the wound, has carried the person to safety
and has tended the person through recovery. Helping someone else
through difficulty is where civilization starts, Mead said.'  We are
at our best when we serve others. Be civilized."

---

ZDNet: "Why Denmark is dumping Microsoft Office and Windows for
LibreOffice and Linux.. Before the Danish government announced its
move, Denmark's largest cities, Copenhagen and Aarhus, had already
announced plans to phase out Microsoft software and cloud services...

Denmark wants to claim 'digital sovereignty.' In the States, you
probably haven't heard that phrase, but in the European Union, digital
sovereignty is a big deal and getting bigger.. A combination of
security, economic, political, and societal imperatives is driving the
EU's digital sovereignty moves"

---

IC: "As the West Bank is being annexed to Israel through blood and
violence, many Israeli and international businesses and financials are
tacitly supporting the ethnic cleansing with their business operations
in the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories.

Recently, the Norwegian parliament rejected efforts to tighten rules
on its huge sovereign wealth fund investing in companies operating in
the West Bank. Despite Norway’s central role in the initiation of the
two-state peace process in the 1990s, the Norwegians lawmakers voted
by 88 to 16 against a proposal that would have ordered the fund to
withdraw from companies “that contribute to Israel’s war crimes and
the illegal occupation” of the West Bank."

---

H2 Central: "NEOM Green Hydrogen targets global market leadership: CEO

- Project serves as a model for large-scale hydrogen production

- Plant will be powered entirely by solar and wind energy, with a
  2.2-gigawatt electrolyzer designed for continuous hydrogen
  production"

---

[Link](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/xx0zlberp30gt4ylkzap2/blood_sport_train.gif?rlkey=dj4idootw5q2qv5gkzcfvmsl3&st=wml8nk8r&raw=1)

---

Some kind of tough guy.. you don't like the jazz? C'mon. I'm getting
ready for you..

---

<img width='340' src='https://hydrogen-central.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/hyundai-motor-nexo-hydrogen.png'/>

H2 Central: "Hyundai Motor launches face-lifted Nexo hydrogen
SUV.. The upgraded hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicle (FCEV) model
boasts a futuristic design that blends urban and outdoor utility, a
driving range of up to 720 kilometers on a single charge and a
high-efficiency powertrain with a maximum motor output of 150
kilowatts. It also features top-tier safety and convenience
technologies for its class"

---

"A year after the oil embargo ended, Faisal was assassinated in Riyadh
on March 25, 1975. He was shot and killed by a younger prince, Faisal
bin Musaid, the son of his half-brother, who had been educated in the
United States."

---

"King Faisal [of SA] was also a staunch advocate for Arab unity and a
vocal critic of Israeli policies in the region. He used Saudi Arabia’s
oil wealth as a political weapon, famously enacting an oil embargo
against nations supporting Israel during the 1973 Yom Kippur War...


---

Ok.. ok.. here's some more..

---
