# Week 4


"@pixelfed@mastodon.social

We've received more offers to acquire our platform/assets.

We belong to the people.

Our Kickstarter is launching soon, help us prove that we, the people,
can build healthy and vibrant communities, without being controlled by
vested interests who don't share our values...

Spread the word ✨"

[[-]](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/pixelfed/pixelfed-foundation-2024-real-ethical-social-networks)

---

Pikkety: "Biden is not wrong [about the dangers of oligarchy]. The
issue is that he has done little to oppose the oligarchic drift taking
place both in his country and globally. In the 1930s, his predecessor
Roosevelt, also deeply concerned about such trends, did not stop at
making speeches. Under his leadership, Democrats implemented a robust
policy of reducing social inequalities (with tax rates on the highest
incomes nearing 70%–80% for half a century) and investing in public
infrastructure, health, and education...

In the 1980s, Republican Ronald Reagan, deftly playing on nationalism
and a feeling of catching up, undertook to dismantle Roosevelt’s New
Deal. The problem was that Democrats, far from defending this legacy,
actually helped legitimize and solidify Reagan’s turn, notably under
the Clinton (1993-2001) and Obama (2009-2017) administrations.."

[[-]](https://www.lemonde.fr/blog/piketty/2025/01/21/democracy-vs-oligarchy-the-fight-of-the-century/)

---

The New Arab: "[2024/06] Pro-Israel billionaire Miriam Adelson backs
Trump's campaign, pushes for West Bank annexation"

---

A break from fighting in Gaza but increase of tension in the West
Bank?  Annexation begins?

NYT: "Israel Embarks on an ‘Extensive’ Military Operation in the West Bank"

---

Politico: "Trump kicks off potentially messy fight over Biden’s
infrastructure money.. An executive order by President Donald Trump
requiring agencies to stop paying money for two mammoth Biden-era laws
could bring a wide range of infrastructure, transportation and energy
projects to a halt — including those already delivering jobs to
Republican-led states"

---

Jeff Beck with Imogen Heap-Rollin' And Tumblin' \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/1fD17jKrlRE)

---

World Inequality

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/113/858/521/717/426/719/original/adb4551b8b773d5f.png'/>

---

Perfect setup, a piece of the floor is mobile, the exterior geodesic
dome of bioceramic material. Exterior can be deconstructed piece by
piece quickly. When you are not living in it, your land doesn't
necessarily have go have a house on it.. Lower belongings underground,
deconstruct the exterior, done. 

---

For residential, single family homes can build a vertically moving
platform for a piece of the floor to lower belongings (furniture,
appliances) below ground when needed. Place a door on top, something
fire resistant, lock it, get out of dodge.

---

No eye gauging, no groin attacks, no hitting back of the head.. if one
trains for such artificial rules, fighter will not be ready for what's
out there... There are entire stances in certain styles created
*specifically* to protect groin.

But go ahead crawl around on the ground like gay lovers.. if you are
into that, fine, but beware, your training is incomplete.

---

"Most fights end up on the ground".. Most fights end with *someone* on
the ground, and they end quickly. That's different.

---

\#Davis \#Corruption 

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/_JGzI_IDYaU?start=1223&end=1524)

---

Whiskey's Gone Zac Brown Band \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/5KSsZFQGADo)

---

I listen to any song about whiskey

---

Understand red states.. dig into some country. 

---

Firstpost: "Trump signs executive order to defer TikTok ban by 75 days"

---

It's been a hell of a ride for djt \#47

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/113/864/918/299/958/087/original/49e91885000dff40.jpeg'/>

---

Propublica: "Following a Series of Government Hacks, Biden Closes Out
His Administration With New Cybersecurity Order.. The executive order
follows a ProPublica investigation that found Microsoft prioritized
profit over security, leaving the federal government vulnerable to the
largest hack in U.S. history...

ProPublica found that, for years, Microsoft leaders ignored warnings
about the flaw from one of their own engineers because they feared
that publicly acknowledging it would alienate the federal government
and cause the company to lose ground to competitors.

That profit-over-security culture was driven in large part by the rush
to gain ground in the multibillion-dollar cloud computing market, the
news organization reported

---

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/113/740/005/109/659/968/original/4a44ec0290bf2c04.png'/>

---

\#Chollet

"If your learning algorithm is based on correlation rather than
causation, it will struggle with overfitting. To understand something
is to identify its minimal sufficient causal mechanisms. Parsimony
isn't just elegance, it's generalization robustness"

---

Self-defense should decide picking a style. Take BJJ. Recent version
of the art is sadly being developed to beat itself, not random
attackers in a context of self-defense.

---

Philly Shell defense is useful, but I dont think it would work well on
the street. The gloves are a big part of why it works.

High Guard ok, but better, just lift up your arms, create a an
obstacle area in front (while also moving out of the way).

---

"The US green hydrogen firm Plug Power has just nailed a $1.66 federal
loan guarantee towards the goal of building up to six hydrogen hubs
around the country"

<img width='340' src='https://cleantechnica.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/green-hydrogen-plug-power-lpo-clean-hydrogen-800x445.png'/>

---

"@bmac@jawns.club

@Ianagol The prompt of annoyance at unsolicited AI turning up in my
work apps, in my Zoom calls, and in a frickin' PDF of all places. So I
channeled my irritation into rhyme"

---

"@Ianagol@mathstodon.xyz

@bmac Which prompt did you use to make this?"

---

"@bmac@jawns.club

I do not like this new A.I.

Its nonsense answers make me sigh

I do not want to hear its tale

I do not want it in my mail

I do not want it a-la-mode

I do not want it in my code

I do not want it with a scone

I do not want it in my phone

I do not want it as my chef

Not even in a PDF

I do not like this new A.I.

This is the truth I won't deny"

---

He has some pieces right but they are all put together
crooked. Democracy is broken in US, true, so bad a monarch would be
better, also true. But the culprit is corporate power, not
bureucracy. Reps *and* Democrats allowed that to happen, starting w/
Carter, then w/ Clinton, black Bill Clinton, so on.

NYT: "Yarvin Says Democracy Is Done.. [he says] the mainstream media
and academia, have been overrun by progressive groupthink and need to
be dissolved. He believes that government bureaucracy should be
radically gutted.. America needs to.. get over our dictator-phobia —
that American democracy is a sham, beyond fixing, and having a
monarch-style leader is the way to go"

---

Adam McKay: "What you’re seeing.. is the hyper-financialisation and
corporatisation of studios and streamers where everything now is just
immediately funnelled into the boardroom…That economic model is what's
antagonised the climate crisis. When you look at things only through
quarterly revenue models and your only responsibility is to
shareholders, that’s a destructive machine."

---

In the right circumstance a decentralized, digital cash can become the
defacto global currency. A new kind of politics can give it that power.

---

Currently, official currencies are based on paper. What is more
(relatively) worthless than paper?

---

That is not the right criticism against Bitcoin or cyrpto. No money in
history, including gold, had intrinsic value. *Politics* gives value,
it decides what is valueable as currency. Politics did that for gold,
the king demanded taxes to be paid in gold, dug up gold from mines he
controlled (this is key) and gave it to his soldiers to spend, and
voila! The public rushed to sell stuff to the army to get the golds to
pay taxes. Two birds with one stone: army is supplied, the king
controls money.

"Bitcoin has no intrinsic value"

---

\#Debris

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/k67Mra8HXVY?start=403&end=442)

---

Budget 120 mil, it will lose money. I can see where the relatively
high audience score comes from. Fine to watch once but not enough to
recommend, so word-of-mouth would not carry it further... I agree with
a commentator, if this movie was made in the 80s when the audience did
not know what to expect from a comic book movie, *Kraven* would be
well received.  But after *Spiderman 2*, *Infinity War*, it's a
different game. Still fine for me.

---

```python
u.boxofficemojo("Kraven")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Domestic Opening': '$11,001,109',
 'Domestic': '$24,546,778',
 'International': '$34,861,214',
 'Worldwide Total': '$59,407,992',
 'Release Date': 'December 11, 2024'}
```

---

```python
u.rottentomatoes("Kraven the Hunter")
```

```text
Out[1]: {'critics': '16', 'audience': '74'}
```

---

*Krave the Hunter*, average.. but ok to watch. The scenery, pace
was good..

---

Ed Zitron: “Our economy isn’t one that produces things to be used, but
things that increase usage”

---

You think Japanese construction cos *love* to spend extra time
earthquake proofing their buildings? They do it because they have to.

[[-]](https://edition.cnn.com/2024/01/06/style/japan-earthquake-architecture-dfi-hnk/index.html)

---

Gov should've mandated all houses to be fire-resistant but after
decades of a culture talking down government (tax is "theft",
regulation "innovation hindrance"), this is where shit ends up. As ash.

---

Reuters: "Owners of a fire-resistant house hope LA rebuilds smarter"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/TAePCm5PSnM)

---

House construction tech is outdated. Bioceramics are the way.  Flame
resistant, strong, durable.

---

"@cryptadamist@universeodon.com

Los Angeles crypto bros reporting that they lost their life's savings
because they had their seed phrase stored in their house is exactly
why cryptocurrency is way better than a regular bank"

---

"@toxi@mastodon.thi.ng

Re-animating my old iPad (original) with iOS5... The UI and my app
selection instantly makes it feel like an artifact from an alternative
timeline, one with a more humanist & less-consumerist outlook on
tech. Sadly almost none of the online connected apps work anymore,
neither do many websites (possibly due to newer JS/TLS, but also even
if they do load, there're a LOT of HTML/CSS troubles, showing again
just how temporally brittle the web stack is)... It's just been 15
years!"

---

"@cam@hachyderm.io

Reports in Israel are saying that Trump's envoy, Steve Witkoff, did
exactly what Biden and Blinken refused to do: tell them to stop
bombing and take the ceasefire deal. Biden fully shredded Dem support
from Arabs and Muslims in this country to then fail to beat Trump in
the election, in the process probably throwing tons of young people
into either apathy or the GOP by calling them anti-semitic terrorists
on college campuses"

---

👍 👍 

CNN: "The House voted on Tuesday to pass a GOP-led bill that would ban
transgender athletes from women's and girls' sports at federally
funded funded schools and educational institutions"

---

\#StatusCoup \#MSDNC \#Oligarchy

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/Hr6S8Xd1NFg?start=481&end=793)

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU - 01/13 - 01/19

[[-]](ukrdata/map03.html)

---
