# Week 17

[Perovskites](2022/06/the-h2-revolution-alvera.html#peros)

---

Zeihan: "[T]he absolute lowest grade for silicon as an actual
industrial input is 99.95 percent pure.  Getting there requires a
blast furnace, which typically requires a lot of coal.  Overall, the
process isn’t all that complicated—you basically just bake the quartz
until anything that is not silicon burns away—which means some 90
percent of this firststep processing tends to be done in countries
like Russia and China, countries with a lot of surplus industrial
capacity that don’t [care] about environmental issues...

The 99.95 percent purity of 'standard' silicon isn’t anywhere enough
[for solar panels]. A second round in the blast furnace gets the
silicon up to 99.99999 percent pure. Round two is far more
sophisticated than round one’s bake-it-pure. China’s GCL Group is the
only Chinese entity that can manage such precision at scale, making it
responsible for one-third of global supply. The rest comes from a
smattering of developed-world companies.  This pure silicon is
incorporated into the solar cells that make solar panels do their
thing"

---

CleanTechnica: "China’s coal-fired electricity generation took an
unexpectedly sharp turn downward in the first quarter of 2025,
signaling a potentially profound shift in the world’s largest
coal-consuming economy. This wasn’t merely a seasonal dip or economic
distress signal; rather, it represented a clear and structural turning
point. Coal generation fell by approximately 4.7% year over year,
significantly outpacing the overall grid electricity supply decline of
just 1.3%. However, electricity demand, a better measure, went up by
1%. What gives?...

China put in place a Whole County Rooftop Solar Promotion
Program. Developers had to bid on an entire county’s rooftop solar at
once, committing to putting solar on 50% of government buildings, 40%
of public institutions, 30% of commercial and industrial rooftops, and
20% of rural homes. That’s paid off massively in the densely populated
southeast of the country where demand is highest and free space is
lowest...

As a result, tens of terawatt-hours (TWh) of electricity generated by
these rooftop systems are effectively invisible when interpreting
China’s national grid-supplied electricity data. This has profound
implications: the reported 1.3% decline in grid electricity generation
does not represent true reduced consumption, but rather a substitution
effect—electricity generated behind the meter directly displacing
grid-supplied power... Given that China’s reported 1.3% drop in
grid-delivered electricity in early 2025 equates to roughly 30 TWh
less generation, it’s reasonable to conclude that this hidden solar
growth alone might account for much, if not all, of the decline"

---

BBC: "US sets tariffs of up to 3,521% on South Asia solar panels"

---

"@luckytran@med-mastodon.com

From the first #EarthDay: Students in St. Louis marched wearing masks
to protest smog and air pollution.

The inaugural 1970 protests drew millions, and led to the creation of
the EPA and clean air standards"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.masto.host/medmastodoncom/media_attachments/files/114/383/009/754/943/226/original/64abfaa939a5b210.png'/>

---

Firstpost: "Far-right Reform UK to beat Labour to be largest party if
elections are held today: Survey"

---

YNet: "The Houthi rebels were positioning landmines around the port of
Hodeidah and other populated areas in anticipation of a ground
offensive by Yemen's government forces, with the support of the United
States, the Saudi-owned Asharq Al-Awsat reported on Saturday"

---

Left to their own devices businesses will become monopolistic,
globalize, employ slave labor, destroy nature while doing so, cheat,
steal, tax-evade.. It is in their nature.

---

Scared of being in the "kill zone" - I believe that is the definition
of monopolistic power.

---

Kurt Andersen: "[2020] Google does more than 90 percent of all
Internet searches, forty times as many as its closest competitor. As
far as venture capitalists are concerned, digital start-ups looking to
compete with the Internet colossi, no matter how amazing their new
technology or service or vision, ultimately have two alternatives: to
be acquired by Google or Facebook, or to be destroyed by Google or
Facebook. If the latter seems likelier—being in the 'kill zone,' in
the Valley term of art—the VCs tend not to invest in the first place"

---

Politico: "This week marks a moment of truth for Washington’s push to
rein in Big Tech — a yearslong and often fruitless battle to curb the
power of the world’s richest companies... After years of empty threats
from Congress, two major antitrust cases have landed two companies in
court at once"

---

Dems need to ditch Clinton and Obama as examples to be followed and
stop pretending they were good Presidents.

---

Politico: "Doug Sosnik is a longtime Democratic strategist best known
for being a top adviser to Bill Clinton. He’s a self-described member
of the party’s centrist wing. But he says it’s now time for Democrats
to take a page from the progressive left’s playbook.. 'We’re out of
power. We can’t get anything done,' he said. But at least we need to
be able to articulate a coherent narrative about the future that can
appeal to the middle class.'"

---

CNBC: "China vows retaliation against countries that follow U.S. calls
to isolate Beijing"

---

Arab News: "China on Monday hit out at other countries making trade
deals with the United States at Beijing’s expense, promising
countermeasures against those who 'appease' Washington in the
blistering tariff war. While the rest of the world has been slapped
with a blanket 10 percent tariff, China faces levies of up to 145
percent on many products"

---

Ledbetter, *Unwarranted Influence*: "The last years of [Ike's]
presidency were marked by deep, often bitter conflicts with Congress
over the military and national security... These conflicts came to a
head in the fall of 1957, with the one-two punch of the Soviet Sputnik
launch and the near-simultaneous release of a report arguing that the
United States would soon fall behind the Soviets in the production of
atomic weapons...

The launch of the Sputnik satellite on October 4, 1957, hit the
Eisenhower White House like a targeted missile. Whether it represented
a scientific breakthrough for the Soviet Union is a matter that can
still be debated. But as a public relations coup, it unsettled the
administration more than any other event... 

While the public was focused on the two Sputnik launches, Washington’s
elite was arguably more devastated by the release of an exceptionally
well-timed panel study — delivered four days after the second Sputnik
orbit — that appeared to show the Soviet military threat was even
greater than the administration thought. Entitled 'Deterrence &
Survival in the Nuclear Age,' it was known informally as the Gaither
Report, after its panel chairman, H. Rowan Gaither of the RAND
Corporation. The report —classified top secret— cited 'spectacular
progress' in Soviet military development after World War II.  The
Soviets, the authors claimed, had enough fissionable material for
fifteen hundred atomic weapons and had 'probably surpassed' the United
States in the production of nuclear-tipped intercontinental
missiles. They proposed a massive military spending program that
would...  match the alleged Soviet offensive capabilities..

The period following the Sputnik-Gaither crisis demonstrates
Eisenhower’s military-industrial-complex critique in its early
stages. [W]ho was behind the faulty intelligence and calls for
military buildup in the Gaither Report? The leadership consisted of
known and trusted Eisenhower advisors, but there could be no hiding
the fact that the billions in increased military spending called for
by the panel would benefit many of the very people making the
recommendations. Two of the report’s principal directors were Robert
C. Sprague, who headed his own business of military electronics, and
William C. Foster of the Olin-Mathiesen Chemical Company, a producer
of gunpowder and ammunition"

---

The supposed Tishrin Dam handoff (from SDF to HTS) is not yet visible.

\#Frontlines \#Syria - 03/24 - 04/19

[[-]](mbl/2025/syrdata/map03.html)

---

