# Week 30

It's a racket. I hope they don't spend a dime for excessive military
build-up.

NYT: "Spain Is Reluctant to Spend More on Security Despite NATO Pressure"

---

\#Warren \#401k

<audio controls>
  <source src="https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/sve85zptzyj7a8losr5b8/warren-401k-1.webm?rlkey=avv1j4q88jxmbnbb7fqfxtx5j&st=5hjtbocf&raw=1" type="audio/webm">
  Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

---

The slain CEO was of the insurance subsidiary of UHG.

---

CNBC: "UnitedHealth Group revealed Thursday it is facing Department of
Justice investigations over its Medicare billing practices, adding to
a string of setbacks for a company that owns the nation’s largest and
most powerful private insurer...

The company announced the abrupt departure of former CEO Andrew Witty
in May...  UnitedHealth’s announcement on Thursday comes after The
Wall Street Journal reported in May that the Department of Justice is
conducting a criminal investigation into the health-care giant over
possible Medicare fraud."

---

US GDP growth last quarter was -0.5%. FED GDPNow predicts 2.3% for Q2.
Inflation for June was 2.6%.

---

Fleet News: "HyHaul Mobility will deploy 30 hydrogen fuel cell HGVs
along the M4 to create the UK’s first zero-emission hydrogen trucking
corridor, by summer 2026."

---

Shuja Haider: "Capitalism has existed for less than 1% of recorded
history and we might literally destroy the planet under it, but it's
the only system that 'works' and we have to keep doing it forever".

---

If this move eliminates shows like Trek SNW I'm all for it. We need
more of Picard Season 3.

The Hill: "Skydance promises to eliminate DEI, review CBS after merge"

---

CNBC: "EU chief says China trade must become more balanced"

---

Al-Monitor: "EU pressured to act against Israel over Gaza. Several EU
countries are pushing Brussels to move forward with concrete actions
against Israel over the war in Gaza for failing to improve the dire
humanitarian situation, diplomats said Thursday."

---

NYT: "Gazans Are Dying of Starvation"

---

Politico: "Zelenskyy U-turns on anti-corruption agencies power grab
after public outcry"

---

"@winterknight1337@infosec.exchange

Remember how everyone freaked out about Microsoft’s Recall feature
(spyware) in Windows 11? And Microsoft said it would be fine because
it’s all processed locally?

Guess what’s [not processed](https://www.theregister.com/2025/07/23/microsoft_copilot_vision/)
locally anymore"

---

"@GeofCox@climatejustice.social

The UK Government has been captured by the big business
lobby... George Monbiot describes the silly contortions the current
consultation on chemical imports standards is going through in the
hope of deregulation, when 'there is in fact a means of reducing costs
while maintaining high standards: simply mirror EU rules..'"

---

The Anglo is born pro-bihness. It is deep in their cultural DNA. The
crooked ideology spread from the Anglo, helped by their perceived
status as the WWII victor. The rest of the world should not have
copied this bizarre philosophy. But the ideology reached the end of
its runway.. It exploited all it can, and ran out of ways to hide
itself. 

---

Monbiot, *The Guardian*: "A month ago, so quietly that most of us
missed it, the government published a consultation on deregulating
chemicals...  The intention is set out at the beginning: to reduce
'costs to business'... If.. a chemical has been approved by a 'trusted
foreign jurisdiction', it should be approved for use in the UK. No
list is given of what these trusted jurisdictions are. It will be up
to ministers to decide: they can add such countries through statutory
instruments, which means without full parliamentary scrutiny...

Lobbyists will point out that a chemical product has been approved for
sale in the US, or Thailand or Honduras, then ask the government to
add that country as a trusted jurisdiction. If the government agrees,
'domestic evaluation' would be 'removed', meaning that no UK
investigation of the product’s health and environmental impacts will
be required.

In the US, to give one example, a wide range of dangerous chemical
products are approved for uses that are banned here and in many other
countries. The government has fired the gun on a race to the bottom."

---

If the two-year treasury is the best indicator for FED rates, the FED
has been behind the curve on lowering rates. They are not changing bcz
they are pissed at Trump for his trade policy?

```text
            DGS3MO  DGS2  DGS10  FEDFUNDS
DATE                                     
2025-07-22    4.41  3.83   4.35      4.33
```

---

They didn't need thinkers they needed compliant, assembly-line slaves.

---

US needs education policy, who do they turn to? Freaking businessmen.

TSJ: "The Rockefeller Influence on the Education System In the U.S,
industrialists like John D. Rockefeller poured a significant amount of
investment into education system. He created the General Education
Board at the ultimate cost of $129 million and provided major funding
for schools across the nation and was very influential in shaping the
school system... Business advisor to Rockefeller, Frederick T.Gates, a
prominent member of the General Education Board stated, 'We shall not
try to make these people or any of their children into philosophers or
men of learning, or men of science'..

There are even reports that Rockefeller and industrial giant Andrew
Carnegie, played a significant role to influence the American
educational agenda to direct what students were taught in school. In
1914, The National Education Association alarmed by the activity of
the Carnegie and Rockefeller Foundations stated in their annual
meeting : “We view with alarm the activity of the Carnegie and
Rockefeller Foundations—agencies not in any way responsible to the
people—in their efforts to control the policies of our State
educational institutions, to fashion after their conception and to
standardize our courses of study, and to surround the institutions
with conditions which menace true academic freedom and defeat the
primary purpose of democracy as heretofore preserved inviolate in our
common schools, normal schools, and universities.'"

---

Clinton almost released Pollard but did not thanks to [Tenet](https://www.nytimes.com/1998/11/11/world/cia-chief-vowed-to-quit-if-clinton-freed-israeli-spy.html).

Mucker is now out, an ardent Israeli ultra [right-winger](https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/2024-02-25/ty-article/send-gazans-to-ireland-ex-spy-pollard-looks-to-ben-gvir-to-find-his-political-future/0000018d-dfe1-df79-a5cd-ffffa32f0000)
apparently. 

---

Times of Israel: "Netanyahu said to have offered Lewinsky tapes for
Pollard. New critical book on the Clinton family claims that Israel
tapped White House phones, blackmailed president with recordings of
intern"

---

\#Ukraine 07/18 - 07/24

[[-]](ukrdata/map28.html)

---

Slashgear: "Cummins.. is known for its robust diesel engines. However,
while its diesel products continue to remain high profile, many may be
unaware of the company's technology division, which has been hard at
work innovating with sustainable power alternatives. One recent
achievement is the Cummins fuel cell engine in the HY4; the first
hydrogen-powered aircraft. Using hydrogen, the HY4 utilizes an
electric powertrain allowing it to take flight with the only byproduct
being water, meaning it effectively releases zero emissions during
operation. This aircraft isn't large, only allowing for four
passengers, but it's a proof of concept, demonstrating the feasibility
of alternative fuel after 30 multi-hour flight tests. Cummins isn't
alone in its quest for eco-friendly aircraft using hydrogen"

<img width='340' src='https://www.slashgear.com/img/gallery/cummins-is-making-an-airplane-engine-but-no-its-not-a-diesel/intro-1753194888.webp'/>

---

"Less than an hour after the UK and 25 other nations issue calls to
'end the war' in Gaza, another British surveillance aircraft departed
RAF Akrotiri, continuing the flow of military intelligence to Israel"

---

The Guardian: "A cruise liner carrying Israeli tourists has been
forced to reroute to Cyprus after being turned away from the Greek
island of Syros after a quayside protest over the Gaza war... Around
1,600 Israeli passengers on board the Crown Iris were prevented from
disembarking amid safety concerns when more than 300 demonstrators on
the Cycladic isle made clear they were unwelcome over Israel’s conduct
of the war and treatment of Palestinians in Gaza. A large banner
emblazoned with the words Stop the Genocide was held aloft alongside
Palestinian flags."

---

The stock market is not tied to fundamentals.. It only needs *enough*
of a good news, enough of a lull, in a business-as-usual sense, to
just skyrocket. The wealth of the wealthiest grows passively,
persistently... All that f-ing money needs to go somewhere.

---

All time highs.. bottom, shbottom.. There is no persistent bottom in
this market when rich people have so much to spend / invest. The rise
continues as if nothing happened, all is back to trend.

---

```python
u.get_fred(2024, ['SP500']).plot()
```

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/901/822/384/639/143/original/e9d07bbea0d44496.jpg'/>

---

The Lever: "AIPAC-Funded Lawmakers Push For Millions In Spending On
Genocide Tech.. The latest military spending bill fulfills an
AIPAC-curated wishlist and sets the stage for a defense industry
feeding frenzy."

---

Politico: "Zelenskyy signed a controversial bill into law Tuesday that
critics say nixes the independence of Ukraine’s anti-corruption
watchdogs, sparking protests around the country for the first time
since Russian tanks rolled over the border in February 2022.. Top EU
leadership has now urged Zelenskyy to prove he is still committed to
European democratic values after signing the inflammatory law, which
European allies said threatens to fatally undermine Ukraine’s ongoing
bid to join the bloc."

---

IC: "Gaza is Starving and the World Looks Away"

---

Al-Monitor: "Iranian foreign minister says Iran cannot give up on
nuclear enrichment"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

All signs suggest that the BEV market is overstretched. No one is
doing particularly well. Not even BYD."

---

Former Citibank trader tells all \#Housing \#Stevenson

[[-]](https://youtu.be/BTlUyS-T-_4?t=981)

---

Massive earthquake.. with many other shakes near it

```python
u.map_coords([51,154],u.eq_at(51,154,1000,ago=4,minmag=6.0), zoom=9, outfile="map09.html")
```

[[-]](map09.html)

---

"The hydrogen tax credit gets a 2-year extension in OBBBA compared to
previous versions of the bill.. he OBBBA put the final nail in the
coffin for a broad suite of energy tax credits created by the
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), effectively killing or slashing
electric vehicle, energy efficiency, wind, and solar tax credits by
moving up expiration dates and phaseout schedules. The hydrogen
production tax credit was originally on the chopping block in both the
House and Senate versions but secured a last-minute reprieve through a
favorable amendment."

---

H2C: "China’s scientists cut platinum use in hydrogen production with
new bimetallic catalyst"

---

Jalopnik: "Chinese vehicle sales have seemingly exploded across the
world (save for the U.S.), but it looks like at least some of that
might be smoke and mirrors. A new report from Reuters says that
Chinese automakers Neta and Zeekr inflated sales numbers in recent
years as a way to hit aggressive targets."

---

IC: "25 Nations.. Demand Israel end Gaza War Now: Suffering of
Civilians has Reached 'New Depths'"

---
