# Week 19

Dessler: "This study focuses on the Electric Reliability Council of
Texas (ERCOT) electricity market in Texas and demonstrates how the
increase in temperature due to climate change is already driving large
increases in electricity demand and total electricity costs. Results
show that, compared to a 1950–80 baseline climate, electricity demand
in 2023 was 1.9 GW (3.9%) higher because of the extreme temperatures
of that year}climate change contributed 47% of this increase, with the
rest coming from short-term climate variability"

[[-]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gcVcR4sajWy-UOPy2NZM7wAaMFgZALbg/view)

---

Creative regurgitation, making one thing look like another, based on
examples the net is already full of? Converting programming code from
language to another is such a task, LLMs fittingly do fine at
this.. Just don't ask them to think.

---

"@peter@thepit.social

'AI is just like the early web!' ok but did Netscape ever do this"

[[-]](https://fosstodon.org/@peter@thepit.social/114453799880200931)

---

Reuters: "TotalEnergies seeks permit for $16 billion green hydrogen
project in Chile"

---

ProPublica "[The] slashing of budgets and staff have Great Lakes
scientists concerned that they have lost the ability to protect the
public from toxic algal blooms, which can kill animals and sicken
people."

---

Jack Diéval et Le Paris Jazz Quartet - Green Water \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/QSiH87DmQ_g)

---

\#Unzicker \#Kundt

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/BhDpApRa6BI?start=802&end=1016)

---

If singularities are eliminated from the field equations, black hole
hypothesis is automatically debunked.

---

Wolfgang Kundt: "There is now a group of young theorists in the world
who think that the ultimate field equations should not allow for
singularities, because they describe measurements, and our
measurements never get something singular. Our measurements get
something finite, otherwise it's not a physical. So good theories are
free of singularities, [the ones with singularities] must not be
admitted. And we notice now we don't need them, we don't need them
because our neutron stars stay regular. Our measurements.. will stay
regular, and finite"

---

The Times of Israel: "Waltz’s coordination with Netanyahu on Iran
strike contributed to his firing.. Washington Post quotes US officials
saying that ousted security adviser pushed policy ‘in direction Trump
wasn’t comfortable with’"

---

Doctorow: "To make a computer ignore its owner.. the manufacturer has
to build in a bunch of software countermeasures to stop you from
reconfiguring or installing software of your choosing on it. And sure,
that software might be able to withstand the attempts of normies like
you and me to bypass it, but given that we’d all rather have the final
say over how our computers work, someone is gonna figure out how to
get around that software. I mean, show me a 10-foot fence and I’ll
show you an 11-foot ladder, right?

To stop that from happening, Congress passed the 1998 Digital
Millennium Copyright Act. Despite the word “copyright” appearing in
the name of the law, it’s not really about defending *copyright*, it’s
about defending *business models*. Under Section 1201 of the DMCA,
helping someone bypass a software lock is a felony punishable by a
five-year prison sentence and a $500,000 fine (for a first
offense). That’s true whether or not any copyright infringement takes
place"

---

Whoever advocated / initiated the use of this version of Signal
knowingly provided ISR, therefore the military-industrial-Likud
complex, a backdoor into US gov communications.

404 Media: "The Signal Clone the Trump Admin Uses Was Hacked.. A
hacker has breached and stolen customer data from TeleMessage, an
obscure Israeli company that sells modified versions of Signal and
other messaging apps to the U.S. government to archive messages, 404
Media has learned. The data stolen by the hacker contains the contents
of some direct messages and group chats sent using its Signal clone,
as well as modified versions of WhatsApp, Telegram, and
WeChat. TeleMessage was recently the center of a wave of media
coverage after Mike Waltz accidentally revealed he used the tool in a
cabinet meeting"

---

Kennedy was good to MIC, it would be unlikely they were behind his
death, but on Lyndon Johnson and Texas oil interests arranging for the
assasination they would have been a tentative yes. They were happy
with the status quo, but after JFK with LBJ they would still get their
earnings. Historically we know LBJ escalated the war in Vietnam and
via MIC stocks he owned, made himself a billionaire in today's
dollars, the only president to do so while on the job. Overall things
worked out for the complex.

Hossein-Zadeh wrote about the pecking order [here](../../2025/05/hossein-zadeh.html). 

---

The launch of Sputnik unsettled the Eisenhower WH, and the
military-corporate interests immediately pushed for more spending, a
hoax was created, "US is falling behind", ergo the need for increased
military budgets. JFK exploited the issue too before his election, he
kept talking about a "missile gap" (btw US and USSR) but there was no
such gap, it was a lie.

---

ProPublica: "Gavin Kliger [of Douche] helped oversee mass firings at
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau while holding stock in
companies that experts say likely stand to benefit from dismantling
that agency — a potential violation of federal ethics laws."

---

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/cache/preview_cards/images/145/386/387/original/221804345e216d40.jpg'/>

---

Earth.com: "World’s largest natural hydrogen deposit discovery is
worth a staggering $184 billion"

---

Ledbetter: "Since the early 1950s, anyone who has expected American
military spending to shrink significantly in absolute terms has nearly
always been disappointed. Many commentators have concluded that
America’s military and political elite have exaggerated or even
manufactured threats to national security so as to maintain high
levels of military spending. While such theories can veer into
conspiracy, they were not unknown in the Eisenhower White House. At
any rate, the spending numbers speak for themselves. Robert Higgs has
calculated that in the period from 1948 to 1989, real military
spending in 2005 dollars came to an amount just shy of $13
trillion. The overall trend during this period was for military
spending to rise every year, a trend that holds true more or less
independently of any assessment of increased threats to national
security. Simply put, the fact of the United States being relatively
at peace has little impact on how much it spends on its military—which
strongly suggests that other forces are at work..

Military spending under Obama (taking into account not only the budget
line for the Defense Department but also interest on military-related
debt, spending on Iraq and Afghanistan, military spending from other
departments, and veterans’ benefits) [was] more than a trillion
dollars a year"

---

Ledbetter, *Unwarrented Influence*: "The decades-long criticisms
demonstrate beyond doubt that..  excessive cost is built into the
Pentagon contracting process. In one classic case, a 1979 review of
major weapons systems by the General Accounting Office could not
locate a single instance since 1969 in which the Defense Department
had not underestimated its costs. In the 1990s, MIC critics began
focusing on 'add-ons' — money that Congress approves for weapons
systems and construction projects even though the Pentagon has not
requested it. Perhaps the most notorious example is the C-130
transport plane, manufactured by Lockheed Martin. For decades,
Congress approved the purchase of new versions of this plane even
though no one from the executive branch had requested them. Over a
twenty-year period, only 5 such planes were commissioned by the Air
Force; Congress paid for 256"

---

NYT: "Australia’s Prime Minister Clinches Second Term in Remarkable
Comeback.. It was a resounding defeat of the conservative opposition
led by Peter Dutton."

---

UN News: "Gaza: ‘Worst-case scenario’ unfolds as brutal aid blockade
threatens mass starvation.. Two months into a devastating aid blockade
of Gaza food has run out and people are fighting over water amid
relentless bombing, the UN’s humanitarian affairs coordination office
(OCHA) said on Friday"

---

\#Ukraine 04/25 - 05/03

[[-]](ukrdata/map18.html)

---

