# Week 26

Gary Marcus, The Guardian: "When billion-dollar AIs break down over
puzzles a child can do, it’s time to rethink the hype.. A research
paper by Apple has taken the tech world by storm, all but eviscerating
the popular notion that large language models (LLMs, and their newest
variant, LRMs, large reasoning models) are able to reason reliably...

The Tower of Hanoi is a classic game with three pegs and multiple
discs, in which you need to move all the discs on the left peg to the
right peg, never stacking a larger disc on top of a smaller one. With
practice, though, a bright (and patient) seven-year-old can do it.

What Apple found was that leading generative models could barely do
seven discs, getting less than 80% accuracy, and pretty much can’t get
scenarios with eight discs correct at all. It is truly embarrassing
that LLMs cannot reliably solve Hanoi.

And, as the paper’s co-lead-author Iman Mirzadeh told me via DM, 'it’s
not just about ‘solving’ the puzzle. We have an experiment where we
give the solution algorithm to the model, and [the model still failed]
… based on what we observe from their thoughts, their process is not
logical and intelligent'"

---

We can see the depths of the state is **good**, it is the surface that
is rotten.  Four star generals, congressmen, the executive can all be
bought, or can slave themselves to the profit motive of the
complex. Money drives things in America. In the Iraq case, intel did
its job, but a group at the top headed by Cheney, FORMER CEO OF
HALIBURTON, ignored or sometimes worked to promote faulty intel.

---

Mother Jones: "The intelligence assessments that suggested Iraq
possessed significant amounts of WMDs and was close to developing a
nuclear weapon—produced under tremendous pressure from the Bush White
House — were often disputed by experts within the intelligence
community... Meanwhile, they issued overwrought statements about the
supposed threat from Iraq that either were unsupported by the faulty
intelligence or utterly baseless. In short, Bush and Cheney *did lie*,
and those that marched with them toward war were part of a campaign
deliberately fueled with falsehoods. (At one point, Bush even
discussed with British Prime Minister Tony Blair concocting a phony
provocation that could be used to start the war.)...

In March 2003, Cheney insisted that Saddam had a 'long-standing
relationship' with al Qaeda. The intelligence did not show any of
this; no 'bullet-proof' evidence was ever revealed. Bush, Cheney, and
Rumsfeld were making it all up. As the 9/11 Commission later noted,
there had been no intelligence confirming significant contacts between
Iraq and al Qaeda. Here was another instance in which Bush and Cheney
were not misled by flawed intelligence; they were promoting false
information."

---

Intel did not provide fauly info.. decision makers did their funky
business bcz they wanted war.

---

Some see similarities to the Iraq debacle, the intel, war/peace decision..

---
