# Week 3

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 01/03 - 01/13

[[-]](mbl/2025/ukrdata/map02.html)

---

It is all about the chopper

---

[Link](https://youtu.be/jhl3-lyPHHg?t=1)

---

Make A Stand

---

The whole worldview is patently dumb, and, hilariously, loud and
proud. Pure Anglo. US/UK has 'free'-marketism deep in its cultural
DNA. That base is working against them now. You need to fight this
shit like you fight cancer, or any other serious ailment. Either you
kill it, or it kills you.

---

Note the brash, brazenness of this neolib delusion. Muckers live in a
lala land.

Philips, *Wealth and Democracy*: "Using consumption as a gauge works
to overstate popular well-being, all the more so because its
measurements ignore assets and leave out debt burdens, which climbed
most during periods like the 1920s, 1960s, and the 1980s and 1990s
precisely for those least able to afford them.  By an even more
expansive view, consumption had become part of the new edifice of
democracy-as-market. By driving a car, buying a movie ticket, or
watching a television commercial, U.S. consumers participated every
day in the democracy of the marketplace, or so suggested the editorial
pages of the Wall Street Journal. What was widely purchased was, ipso
facto, democratically approved. Buying and selling, indeed, was a
large part of what democracy was about...

Markets would become the democratic rulers in the nineties, said
banker Walter Wriston: 'Markets are voting machines; they function by
taking referenda.'  Ultimately even the proletariat would 'fight to
reduce government power over the corporations for which they work,
organizations far more democratic, collegial and tolerant than distant
state bureaucracies.' Broadcaster Rush Limbaugh, too, wanted to 'let
the marketplace rule.' Former House speaker Newt Gingrich dreamed
about the possibility of establishing a 'consumer-directed
government,' once even suggesting that major questions could be
resolved by simply asking 'our major multinational corporations for
advice'"

---

Beginning of aughts remember CA had a budget hole causing the "Total
Recall" election. The new governator did not fix the problem though,
bcz he is a strapping, upstanding capitalist himself.

---

Stevenson, *The Trading Game*: "[2011, the presenter] had a bunch of
charts. He went through them one at a time. On each one was the fiscal
situation of a single country. Italy. Spain. Greece.
Portugal. Ireland. Also the United Kingdom, the US, Japan. They were
all variations on the same story. All these governments were spending
more than their income year after year and their debts were growing.
If things kept going in the same direction, the interest rates on
their debts would start rising. People would stop lending to them, and
they’d have to sell their assets. That would be bad...

What I couldn’t get out of my head was this sense of similarity. It
was the same. The government of Spain, the government of America, the
government of Japan... Outgoings more than their income. Losing the
ability to borrow money. More and more income going into servicing
debt.  Losing their assets. The situation was the same...

But it came up against the economics though.. We’re in a monetary
system. The whole thing always has to be in balance. For everyone
who’s in debt, there’s someone who’s in credit. For everybody losing
money, there’s somebody who’s gaining. The whole system is designed to
be in balance. Not only that, but what about the houses?  What about
the stock market that was rising and rising? These assets weren’t
disappearing. But if we didn’t own them, if the people didn’t own
them, and the governments didn’t own them...Then who did?..  [T]hat
was the moment that it hit me, [I was] surrounded by
millionaires. [They owned the debt, along with most of the other
assets]"

---

Countries, states reducing services, being in debt is an issue
involving taxation. Neolibs kept talking down gov, reduced their
spending, decreased biz regulation, well, now you *burn in fire*.

---

Why the decrease in tax collection? Maybe CA should've kept it at 2022
levels and increase gov services, so there would be more firefighting
capability.  

```python
df = u.get_fred(1990, ["CATOTLTAX"])
df.plot(title="CA State Government Tax Collections")
```

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/113/816/832/436/822/867/original/926879d6c4f7b972.jpg'/>

---


Ultimately Ventura's attempts did not pan out but for a while I bet it
was worrying for DJT.

---

Trump used the UFO misdirection too.. remember 2020 April

[Link](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/04/30/politics/donald-trump-ufo-videos-response/index.html)

That was done to bury this

[Link](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/494875-jesse-ventura-says-hes-testing-the-waters-for-green-party-bid-for-president/)

---

Cuck Todd is leaving NBC?

[[-]](https://www.thedailybeast.com/nbc-star-trump-hates-is-asking-other-networks-for-job/)

---

The Guardian: "Somalia and Ethiopia agree to restore diplomatic ties
after year-long rift"

---

Politico: "Newsom: LA wildfires could be the worst natural disaster in US history"

---

H2 Central: "BeHydro – Dutch government will launch a subsidy program
to support the decarbonisation of inland shipping – dual-fuel and 100%
hydrogen engines"

---

H2 Central: "Panasonic Introduces Upcoming Hydrogen Fuel Cell Based
Energy Solution in Germany for CO₂-Neutral Offices"

---

The Car Connection: "Tesla tops Ford as most recalled automaker of
2024.. The Tesla Cybertruck was recalled seven times in 2024, and the
EV maker continues to be investigated by the NHTSA"

---

Chollet: "[2024/12] OpenAI o3 ARC-AGI Results [which measures
abstraction capability].. OpenAI's new o3 model.. mark[s] a
qualitative shift in AI capabilities compared to the prior limitations
of LLMs. o3 is a system capable of adapting to tasks it has never
encountered before..  Of course, such generality comes at a steep
cost, and wouldn't quite be economical yet: you could pay a human to
solve ARC-AGI tasks for roughly 5 dollars per task (we know, we did
that), while consuming mere cents in energy. Meanwhile o3 requires
$17-20 per task in the low-compute mode...

o3's improvement over the GPT series proves that architecture is
everything. You couldn't throw more compute at GPT-4 and get these
results. Simply scaling up the things we were doing from 2019 to 2023
– take the same architecture, train a bigger version on more data – is
not enough...

[But] I don't think o3 is AGI yet. o3 still fails on some very easy
tasks, indicating fundamental differences with human intelligence...
Furthermore, early data points suggest that the upcoming ARC-AGI-2
benchmark will still pose a significant challenge to o3, potentially
reducing its score to under 30% even at high compute (while a smart
human would still be able to score over 95% with no training). This
demonstrates the continued possibility of creating challenging,
unsaturated benchmarks without having to rely on expert domain
knowledge"

---

I thought as much.. differentiability is used to find optimum point of
a cost function. If program has to learn programs however, rather than
a function, differentiation might not make sense for that. Deep
Learning built a massive expertise around automatic differentiation,
backpropagation that might not apply to this new approach.

---

"[E]xtending neural networks with more programmatic elements
necessarily means abandoning the idea of end-to-end
differentiability. An example is Chollet's observation that 'if
machine learning models become more like programs, then they will
mostly no longer be differentiable—certainly, these programs will
still leverage continuous geometric layers as subroutines, which will
be differentiable, but the model as a whole would not be. As a result,
using backpropagation to adjust weight values in a fixed, hard-coded
network, cannot be the method of choice for training models in the
future—at least, it cannot be the whole story'"

---

Chollet argues "program synthesis" is the way to go for AGI. AI needs
to learn programs rather than representations of word clouds (current
apprach). If programs can be learned, AI can adapt to new situations
better, we are a step closer to true AGI.

---

Next up: Reaganites remember governments can tax and need the money
for better services. 

---

James Woods says when officials tell you to evacuate don't wait
around, leave! I guess he is saying *listen to the government*. Wasn't
he some kind of Reaganite right-winger who wants small government? I
guess during emergency everyone remembers there is such a thing as gov
whose presence is not tied to profit motive, and is there to help you.

---

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/113/815/044/730/954/804/original/ff58c8ba391ad2cf.jpeg'/>

---

Be Evil

NPR: "[2023/12] Google settles $5 billion privacy lawsuit over
tracking people using 'incognito mode'"

---
