# Week 8

Firstpost: "‘Gulf of America’ row escalates as Mexico vows to take
Google to court.. Sheinbaum had announced on Friday that her
government was considering legal action against Google, saying: 'If
necessary, we will file a civil suit'"

---

"@Rgsharpe@sfba.social

[T]hat link about an Airbnb founder.. I'm really wishing more people
had paid attention to the actual track record of these early
self-acknowledged disruptive companies and helped strangle them long
before they amassed the power to actually harm things. My first
assignment in my public policy masters program ten years ago(!) was
loosely on Airbnb's business model, and even back then it was
abundantly clear that it was going to destroy housing markets and
communities for almost exclusively shareholder benefit"

---

Dentists offering cosmetic services vs essential procedures due to
inequality can create asymmetry on the numbers of customers they serve
too. Dentist can charge a high price for one cosmetic service, now he
doesn't have to offer regular procedure to ten other customers.

---

Per earlier share on rising college tuitions and loans: student loans
are not the driving factor behind rising tuitions, the loans are the
only way the lower income folk can keep up with wealthier families who
can afford to pay much higher tuition. Causality starts at the top.

---

"@Jgmeadows@mstdn.ca

Seeing the boycott US vibe spreading in Europe now as well as
Canada. I am also thinking this is a worldwide opportunity for us all
to rethink our spending habits, and try to move away from mindless
consumerism, which destroys our bank balances, our planet, and our
souls"

---

This person is basically joking darkly his job in the future will 
merely be providing input to some wanker "AI".

"@lritter@mastodon.gamedev.place

'my life goal as an artist is to contribute to more than 0.1% of the
weights of the 'score_9, score_8_up' embedding of future pony
diffusion models'"

---

WaPo: "Arrested by AI: Police ignore standards after facial
recognition matches.. Confident in unproven facial recognition
technology, sometimes investigators skip steps; at least eight
Americans have been wrongfully arrested"

---

Sen Wittman: "[I have] concerns regarding potential conflicts of
interest and [DOUCHE] overreach. Protecting the personal information
of Americans is a fundamental responsibility, and any breach of
privacy is alarming. The prospect of private individuals or companies
having unfettered access to sensitive data raises critical questions
about accountability, oversight, and the safeguarding of our citizens’
rights"

---

Mussolini: "Fascism should more appropriately be called Corporatism"

---

Oliver Stone, *The Untold History of US*: "The feeble international
response to the Spanish Civil War was even more
disheartening. Fighting broke out in July 1936 as Francisco Franco’s
forces set out to topple the elected Spanish government and establish
a fascist regime. The republic had made enemies among U.S. officials
and corporate leaders by its progressive policies and tight regulation
of business...

The United States, following the British and French lead, banned the
shipment of weapons to both sides, which weakened the beleaguered and
outgunned government forces. Ford, GM, Firestone, and other
U.S. businesses provided the fascists with trucks, tires, and machine
tools. Texaco Oil Company, headed by pro-Fascist Colonel Thorkild
Rieber, promised Franco all the oil he needed—on credit. Roosevelt,
furious, threatened an oil embargo and slapped Texaco with a fine. But
Rieber persisted undeterred, supplying oil to Hitler and being
lionized in the pages of Life magazine"

---

Beyond this and that intl org being good or bad, it looks like new
admin wants to decrease "international entanglements", of any kind.
Many thinkers implicitly argue / assume intl orgs are ideals all
countries should aspire to, that they are unquestionable goods that
need to be obtained, joined, but such orgs can prove to be
straightjackets on administrations. On top of all local laws,
regulations now you have to follow requirements of some f-ing agency
that some f-ing president joined some f-ing years ago for whatever
f-ing reason that might not be wholly applicable today.

---

Pro Publica: "We updated our [Supreme Connections database](https://projects.propublica.org/supreme-connections/)
with new disclosures on Thursday, adding Justice Samuel Alito’s
deferred 2023 filing and eight previously missing disclosures from
Justice Clarence Thomas dating back to the 1990s. Supreme Connections
is our database that makes it easy for anyone to browse justices’
financial disclosures and to search for connections to people and
companies mentioned within them"

---

Guy looks like Luigi Mangione too.. RR must have been very jealous.

---

What happened to Ryan Reynolds' wife? I think she was fondled dude..
Fondle Fondle

---

The National: "Labour MPs have raked in more than £300,000 from donors
linked to private healthcare firms as the party pushes for further NHS
privatisation, the Sunday National can reveal"

---

Reportedly air traffic control issued a critical warning to black hawk
before crash, but it was not heard. US aviation uses a radio system
that can lose information, unlike police radio built on the amplitude
mod based technique, the delivery is not guaranteed.

---

You obtain the college degree, and it is yours. It is non-perishable.
It looks like an asset. We notice another similarity to real estate,
tuition prices keeps increasing and the middle class increasingly has
to rely on loans to even "stay in the market". In that sense the
student loan concept mirrors a mortgage loan concept.

---

Should a college degree be seen as an asset? It is offered in limited
amounts to a few each year so maybe yes. Then this explains why
college tuition skyrocketed, just like real estate, degree-as-asset is
becoming more expensive bcz the rich gets richer pouring more money
into this asset class.

---

USAID could be doing other "good stuff". But why can't it all be good?

---

Well I dont know abt this man's other "bad deeds", but USAID is a
somewhat shady org... The one share I made on them was [not
good](2023/01/little-america-chandrasekaran.html).  They obstructed
efforts for Afgans to switch to cotton from poppy.

"@ProPublica@newsie.social

Trump Official Destroying USAID Secretly Met With Christian
Nationalists Abroad in Defiance of U.S. Policy"

---

No plans to save bihnesman and the wealthy? Catastrophe will likely happen
due to them, so fuck'em.

---

Gov is key to all. 

---

This government thing must be important if they have plans to continue
it in a catastrophic situation.

---

This is the government continuity operation mentioned by DoD. So they
had to use that route. .. And the crew was experienced...

Report suggests altitude reading was wrong due to faulty device.

One essential traffic controller warning was missed (aviation uses old
tech for backwards compatibility which can lose data?). WTF? US infra
is decaying.

---

Reuters: "The three soldiers killed in the [black hawk] collision were
part of the 12th Aviation Battalion at Fort Belvoir in Virginia, whose
responsibilities in a national crisis include evacuating Pentagon
officials. Another 64 people were killed in the passenger plane...

[During 911 an official describes] going to a 'bizarre location that
was prepared to survive nuclear war'.. The book’s author, Garrett
Graff, said the site was called Raven Rock Mountain Complex, or 'Site
R', located just miles from Camp David. It remains one of three main
backup facilities for the US government, and the main one for the
Pentagon leadership. 'It’s 100 percent operational today. There’s a
team of maybe 100 personnel inside Raven Rock right now, ready to pick
up the pieces of the US government,' Graff said"

---

Latest Potus Approval

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/003/617/174/943/487/original/a582c673bf3d6543.jpg)

---

There are volunteer data contributors who walk around, mark stuff, OSM
collects such data, but that is mostly for big cities. And why do this
extra work..? Local municipalities already have that information. Just
put the file on a stupid static site, anyone can get them, done.  All
you need is a file server, not an app server.

---

The files would be small. Yet almost no city does this. 

---

Local govs (and federal ones) need to share public data, raw, easily
parsable formats. The simpler the better. For bus/train routes, all
you need to share is two files `stops.csv`, `routes.csv`. External
programs can download that, parse it, provide services on top. It is
simple coding to connect the route IDs that reference stops, listing
them as needed. Use case: stops data has geo coords, a DIY external
service gets data from muni, could find the closest stop to current
location, and calculates all routes going through that stop, displays
them.

---

Someone hacked DOUCHE 

[[-]](https://cyberplace.social/system/media_attachments/files/114/001/479/115/844/254/original/9029201903c1bae3.png)

---

Coinbase: "Javier Milei Backtracks on $4.4B Memecoin After 'Insiders'
Pocket 87M.. Milei deleted his original promotional tweet and revealed
that he wasn't aware of its details"

---

NY Post: "JD Vance says biggest danger in Europe is censorship during
Munich address — not Russia or China: ‘Threat from within’"

---

F24: US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth on Friday warned NATO allies in
Europe against assuming that the American troop presence on the
continent would 'last forever', as he urged them to spend more on
defence"

---

