# Week 14

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

Apple are again behaving in a dodgy manner with Apple Intelligence.

Again full screen prompted to enable it on latest security update on
iPhone.. the only other option is “Set up later”, and they disabled
screenshots of the prompt.

This is the kind of shit Microsoft pull to try to make Bing
happen. It’s really disappointing"

---

"@jpaskaruk@growers.social

I've been paying Google for 100GB storage for quite a while. Just got
notification of this year's pending charge and cancelled the sub. Now
purging the large collection of frivolity I have amassed on their hard
drives, downloading most folders as zips just in case but it's mostly
just junk like mp3s I wanted to share or whatever.

Divest from Silicon Valley now!"

---

Lei: "Despite record-breaking financing in Hong Kong and the
announcement of ultra-fast charging technology, China’s leading EV
maker is likely to follow the same trajectory as [China's Evergrand],
due to its 'high debt, high turnover, and high leverage' growth
model. In China, BYD faces mounting quality concerns. [Here] are [the]
hidden risks threatening its future:

1. Lack of technological innovation
2. Hidden debt
3. A fragile supply chain"

---

Battery-electric tech suffers from diminishing returns. Faster
charging brings in more complexity and degrades the battery
faster. You can't beat physics. Electric tech can never beat the speed
of energy transfer via physical molecules.

---

March 13: Fast supercharger! (shares go up). March 20: Earnings report!
(shares fall). \#BYD

---

Morningstar: "BYD's Shares Drop After 2024 Earnings Results"

---

Allowing massive concentration of wealth is like allowing people to
yell out "fire" in a crowded theather... These are both examples of
self-reinforcing feedback loops. Panic can build on itself and spread
like wildfire dwarfing everything else, same thing can happen with
massive wealth concentration, it will build on itself, grow and grow,
eventually taking all assets from the middle class and even from the
government itself. At the end, every one except the top will end up
poor.

---

"Hard Truths" he says... the title of his book. It reads like a
B-movie screenplay.

---

MW, in his book, calls US not responding "properly" to Russia as "[a]
feckless response to Russia’s taking of Crimea" in 2009. Should US
have gone to war with Russia over Crimea? I don't think this guy gets
it. Your oligarchs were running Ukraine, ultra-nationalist you
sponsored were provoking Russians in the East... And you complain
about Crimea?

---

Wiki: "[Mike Waltz] served in the Bush administration as a defense
policy director in the Pentagon and as counterterrorism advisor to
Vice President Dick Cheney"

---

Breaking Defense: "'It is Russia that has the initiative in the war,'
Swedish defense minister Pål Jonson stated"

---

Antiwar.com: "The US launched dozens more airstrikes on Yemen on
Sunday as the Houthis claimed more attacks on US warships and fired
another missile at Israel... The Houthis, officially known as Ansar
Allah, have shown no sign of backing down in the face of the US
bombing campaign, which began on March 15. Houthi military spokesman
Yahya Saree reaffirmed Sunday that Yemeni military operations will
continue until 'the aggression against Gaza stops and the siege is
lifted'"

---

"Heraeus and Mattiq Join Forces to Cut Iridium Use in Hydrogen
Electrolysers"

---

Marine Insight: "The Netherlands with the launch of the H2ESTIA
Project plans to develop the world’s first zero-emission general cargo
ship powered by liquid hydrogen."

---

"Airbus hones hydrogen plan, showcases next-gen narrowbody tech"

<img width='340' src='https://runwaygirlnetwork.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/ZEROe-fully-electric-hydrogen-powered-four-pod-aircraft_ZeroE_Turboprop_AIB_VCITY2-800x415.jpg'/>

---

Gasworld: First phase work is now underway on the hydrogen pipeline
network of Belgium hydrogen network operator Fluxys Hydrogen, with
2026 targeted for completion.

The pipeline will be gradually expanded in the coming years and form
part of the European Hydrogen Backbone. This aims to connect the key
ports and trading areas of Antwerp, Ghent, Kallo and Zelzate. Belgium
says the pipeline is essential for decarbonising industry.

---

SAN: "According to data compiled in the 2022 water plan from the Texas
Water Development Board, towns and cities in the state could face
severe water shortages by 2030. Water flow in 75% of Texas rivers and
all of its major aquifers are seeing decreasing levels"

---

SAN: "The Permian Basin, located largely in West Texas, is the most
productive U.S. oilfield and generates roughly 1 billion gallons of
wastewater daily [due to fracking]. This wastewater is highly
contaminated, containing chemicals, potentially radioactive elements,
and salt levels up to seven times higher than seawater. Despite these
challenges, lawmakers and industry leaders are exploring ways to treat
and repurpose the water for non-potable applications, such as
agriculture and industrial projects. However, the treatment process is
highly energy-intensive. Estimates suggest treating the entire volume
of wastewater from the Permian Basin could require up to 26 gigawatts
of power — more electricity than what’s generated in 30 U.S. states"

---

STOP TAKING NOTES

---

Sarah Wynn-Williams, *Careless People*: "[Prime Minister] Kenny has
been one of Facebook’s firmest allies since the beginning, and the
Irish have gone above and beyond to court our business... With the EU
quashing the double Irish, is Facebook going to stay in Ireland?
Google and Twitter have publicly committed to keeping their operations
going, but Facebook hasn’t.

Sheryl [Sandberg] says, 'I appreciate that there was substantial
pressure and scrutiny this year on global tax rules and arrangements,'
and thanks Kenny for his 'careful' and 'considered' handling of
it. What she’s thanking him for is an additional five years of double
Irish for Facebook..

Kenny starts explaining the pressure he’s facing. 'Now, you know
Ireland had no choice but to comply with what these other
countries....'  Sheryl interrupts. 'Did you know Facebook has over
five hundred employees from fifty-four nations based in Dublin, and
we’ve just leased a building with capacity for over two thousand
employees?'  'Have I told you about the Knowledge Development Box?'
Kenny asks with a twinkle in his eye. 'Sarah, stop taking notes,'
Sheryl instructs, knowing Kenny’s about to tell us how he’s going to
keep the gravy train going for us. She doesn’t want it written
down. My notes can be subpoenaed."

---

\#DemocracyNow \#McGreal

"In the 1930s.. [grandpa e-jagoff] Joshua Halderman, he's head of the
Canadian branch of a US movement called Technocracy
Incorporated. Technocracy Incorporated is essentially a movement to
overthrow democratic government in the United States, and have
technocrats, big businessmen in many ways, come in and run the
country. [The movement is] partly a reaction to FDR's election and the
New Deal, the massive reforms that he's introduced in the United
States, so from Canada [this group] would help to launch a coup
against FDR. Canada had its own branch of this movement to overthrow
the government in Canada, and Halderman heads that branch"

---

Keep Calm, Have a Russki Brewski.

<img width='80' src='mbl/2025/ruskibrewski-putin.jpg'/>

---

Reverse brain drain.. Great.. Do research in Eurasia, back in the seat
of science. We will become a SUPERPOWAH.

Nature: "75% of US scientists who answered Nature poll consider leaving"

---

Robert Reich: "Blackstone is the largest corporate landlord in history
with over 300k homes in the U.S. One reason why housing costs and
rents have gone up is because Wall Street firms like Blackstone have
been buying them up"

---

\#Peled \#Gaza

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/4uRJcH4JU_M?start=238&end=296)

---

\#Frontline \#Ukraine 03/24 - 03/31

[[-]](ukrdata/map13.html)

---

Forbes: "France’s Natural Hydrogen Discoveries Could Redefine Clean
Energy.. France's discovery of vast natural hydrogen reserves could
reshape the global energy landscape, offering a zero-carbon,
cost-effective alternative to traditional hydrogen sources"

---

The Afghan Whigs - Arabian Heights \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/99xg4DtM-V8)

---

\#Earthquake \#Myanmar

```python
u.map_coords(u.eq_at(20, 96, 1000, 8), polygons=[], zoom=6, outfile="map06.html")	    
```

[[-]](map06.html)

---

The Guardian: "The social housing secret: how Vienna became the
world’s most livable city.. In the Austrian capital, renters pay a
third of what their counterparts do in London, Paris or Dublin. How is
it possible?..

Welcome to Vienna, the city that may have cracked the code of how to
keep inner-city housing affordable. As other cities battle spiralling
rental prices, partly fuelled by inner-city apartments being used as
short-term holiday rentals or being kept strategically vacant by
property speculators, the Austrian capital bucks the trend.

Part of the reason Schranz’s apartment is so affordable is simple:
it’s owned by the city. In Vienna, that is (almost) the norm. The
landlord of approximately 220,000 socially rented apartments, it is
the largest home-owning city in Europe (in London, which has more than
800,000 socially rented apartments, they are owned by the local
councils). A quarter of the people who live in Vienna are social
tenants – if you also include the approximately 200,000 co-operative
dwellings built with municipal subsidies, it’s more than half the
population"

---

Fully Loaded: "TR Group launches GBV hydrogen 50-tonne prime
mover.. TR Group has furthered its industry-leading decarbonisation
efforts with the addition of another hydrogen prime mover to its
rental fleet"

---

"Toyota says its new hydrogen fuel cell system has durability designed
for commercial vehicles"

<img width='340' src='https://chargedevs.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Toyota-Fuel-Cell.jpg'/>

---

Haaretz: "Palestinian Family Goes Out for Dinner, Returns to Find
Israeli Settlers Took Over Their Home"

[[-]](https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/2025-03-24/ty-article/.premium/palestinian-family-goes-out-for-dinner-returns-to-find-israeli-settlers-took-over-home/00000195-c881-db4f-a3b5-deb504f60000)

---
