# Week 39

\#DeepDive

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/ABjjjX6Csss?start=133&end=356)

---

\#FauxPilot

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/6ltU9q1pKKM?start=328&end=419)

---

TASS: "Ukraine’s permanent losses amount to 1.7 million people — Russian commander"

---

IC: "Despite New Western Recognition of Palestine, the Israeli Gov’t
is Coming for the West Bank..  I visited the West Bank three times
over the past 12 months, During the last visit, Israel announced its
intention to divide the West Bank into two parts and possibly three
according to its E1 plan. This is part of Israel bigger plan for the
West Bank including the ethnic cleansing of the Palestinians and an
annexation to Israel.

In fact, ethnic cleansing and annexation are Israel only plans for the
West Bank since it occupied Gaza and the West Bank in 1967. All Israel
polices, including the engaging in a so-called peace process, are
aimed at achieving these Illegal targets."

---

IC: "In move that could Bring in NATO, Spain joins Italy in Sending
Rescue Ship for Sumud Gaza Aid Flotilla. On Wednesday, the socialist
government of Pedro Sánchez in Spain announced that it would dispatch
a rescue ship to be in the vicinity of the 50 ships that make up the
Sumud (steadfastness) flotilla aiming to provide humanitarian relief
to the Gaza Strip"

---

"@LukaszOlejnik@mastodon.social

Circle, one of the biggest players in crypto, is just now realizing it
might be useful to be able to reverse a transaction… The blockchain
sector is solving problems it created itself, and once again
discovering why the traditional financial system works the way it
does."

---

Zionism is a form of fascism after all

---

*Lasciatemi Cantare* is an anti-fascist, leftist hymn BTW

---

♪♬ Lasciatemi cantare ♬ 

♪ ♪ Perché ne sono fiero ♪

♪ Sono un italiano ♬

♬ Un italiano vero ♬

---

MEE: "Italy sends warship to accompany Gaza flotilla following Israeli attack"

---

NYT: "U.N. General Assembly Updates: China, for First Time, Vows to
Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions"

---

ProPublica: "Georgia’s Medicaid Work Requirement Program Spent Twice
as Much on Administrative Costs as on Health Care"

---

Sanders: "Everyone needs housing. Yet today, nearly 800,000 Americans
are homeless and more than 20m households pay more than 50% of their
limited incomes on rent or a mortgage. Since 2000, average rents have
more than doubled and the median price of a home has soared to more
than $435,000."

---

That point on promising good job vs low prices is spot on. The latter
goal is enshrined in FED charter actually, via its famous "price
stability" goal.

---

\#Capitalism \#ProfJiangXueqin

[[-]](https://youtu.be/6-xRk3xAI1o?t=210)

---

via @Heliograph@mastodon.au

<img width='200' src='https://o.mastodon.au/media_attachments/files/115/247/645/273/313/165/original/082569dc7703aadd.jpg'/>

---

The Grayzone: "Mike Cernovich, a conservative activist and longtime
ally of Kirk, may have been alluding to the break-up allegedly
initiated by Shillman when he tweeted on September 13, 2025, 'Charlie
was about to lose his last major donor because he refused to ban
Tucker Carlson from events. There are A LOT of people shedding
crocodile tears. The billionaires must be exposed for the cretins that
they are.' Along with the apparent rift between Shillman and Kirk, The
Grayzone has learned that Netanyahu’s US allies intensified their
campaign to manage the late TPUSA founder as his fateful first campus
tour date approached...

Netanyahu’s functionaries managed Kirk 'on an almost daily basis'..
Shillman’s apparent break with Kirk capped a months-long pressure
campaign from Zionist bigwigs, media operatives, and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu himself to bring the late conservative
activist back into line with the self-proclaimed Jewish state’s
agenda... [T]he TPUSA founder refused an offer by Netanyahu to arrange
a new infusion of funding into his organization from his stable of
Zionist millionaires and billionaires in the US."

---

\#CharlieKirk \#Proof

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MbaQadkqkzI)

---

\#CharlieKirk \#BlackScoutSurvival

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/pB75yyHMPg0?start=713&end=783)

---

That was good wording, contrasting 'never again' of the Jews with 'yet
again' of Palestinians getting bombed and killed.

King Abdullah (Jordan): “Our UN General Assembly was born 80 years
ago, pledging to learn from and not repeat history. The world vowed
'never again'.. However, for almost as long, Palestinians have been
living through a cruel cycle. Yet again, bombed indiscriminately, yet
again, killed, injured and maimed, yet again, displaced and
dispossessed, yet again denied rights, dignity, their basic
humanity.. So I must ask, how long?"

---

Net approval fell to -6.5% a significant change.

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/115/256/787/455/097/701/original/4c43f38960c47607.jpg'/>

---

<img width='340' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/113/724/239/725/832/913/original/ced017dd3cd7a9c6.png'/>

---

Pieter Hintjens: "[2014] For decades, the [bad boys] of the patent
system have been the pharmaceutical industry. The truth is that new
drugs, like new software, are never the product of single teams
working in shiny white laboratories. All innovation comes from mass
effort, over time, to solve numerous individual problems. it's not
just the formula for a drug. It's ten thousand answers to a thousand
problems, along the whole process. At some stage these come together
into viable products [..].

In 1980 the US passed the Bayh-Dole act [which] allowed universities
to keep the patents on federally-funded research. This is an
extraordinary model. The public pays for research that is then owned
by private business and sold back to the public at an extortionate
profit. Bayh-Dole was written and pushed by a consortium of
universities and big pharma. Lucky universities privatized every
significant part of the drug research pipeline, and sold these rights
off to their big pharma partners. The public saw new drugs for
HIV/AIDS, but at a thousand dollars a pop. Hey, that's what health
insurance is for, right?

But what was really happening was worse than a simple hijacking of
public research and blackmailing of the sick and vulnerable. The drug
pipeline stretches 15-20 years. It's a slow process of turning data
into knowledge. The process depends on collaboration between teams,
across the world. Patents poison this process. You cannot at the same
time collaborate on research, and file patents. Simply publishing or
discussing a new idea means you can't patent it [..] Successful
patenting demands secrecy, whereas successful innovation demands open
discussion. Ah, you see the conundrum [..].

The drug research pipeline is layered. That is, a product floats on a
sea of techniques and intermediate tools, and primary research, each a
necessary step on the way to the market. As Bayh-Dole bit, and
universities across the USA and then Europe and Asia started to cash
in, they patented more and more of these layers, until even basic
research techniques were patented as "products". Meaning that
researchers could no longer share techniques and basic knowledge [..].

The consequences were predictable. By the late 90's, the drug pipeline
was almost empty. Pfizer and Merck and the other big pharma brands saw
their profits falling off a cliff [..] Today Pfizer's share price has
fallen by 62% from its high in April 1999. The Bayh-Dole act has not
cured cancer. It has not helped the drug industry past that 20-year
pipeline window. The universities that jumped on that ship have lost
their best researchers. It hasn't produced a single new success in
medicine. Instead, it has allowed a few to profit from what was
already in the pipeline, and poisoned the well of US medical research
for at least three decades."

---

The Lever: "Pharma’s $236 Billion Patent Racket Is About To Fall Off A
Cliff.. Big Pharma is turning to mergers and acquisitions as the
industry is set to lose billions to expired patents by 2030."

---

"@inthehands@hachyderm.io

[A] bunch of assholes have hijacked public perception and lifted up
some of the worst people on Earth as exemplars of what the 'tech
world' is supposed to be..  I’ve been in the software world for
decades, surrounded by thoughftul, creative, and humane people with
whom I’ve formed many wonderful friendships and done meaningful
work. That’s possible. It’s normal, even. You don’t have to become a
sociopath to make it in the tech world. Or a malignant narcissist..."

---

"@werd.io@bsky.brid.gy

This is absurdly great, but I haven't read a single news article about
it. A fully open source, offline-first alternative to Notion that's a
collab between the French and German governments because they want to
host docs securely and on their own terms. THIS is what Europe should
be doing."

---

"Collaborative writing, Simplified. Collaborate and write in real
time, without layout constraints... Govs ❤️ Open Source. Docs is built
on top of Django Rest Framework and Next.js. We also use Yjs and
BlockNote.js, both of which we are proud to sponsor. You can easily
self-host Docs (check our installation documentation).  Docs uses an
innovation and business friendly licence (MIT).  Contributions are
welcome (see our roadmap here)."

[[-]](https://docs.numerique.gouv.fr/home/)

---

TAC: "Israel’s bombing of Qatar changed [the dynamics]. Qatar had an
American base; the U.S. couldn’t stop Qatar from being bombed by a
rabid American protectorate already mired in conflicts with five
neighbours, Syria, Lebanon, Iran, Yemen, and Gaza and the West
Bank... The fact that a U.S. base cannot provide deterrence
automatically pushed Turkey to seek rapprochement with Egypt and the
Saudis to seek Pakistani nuclear weapons. The Joint Strategic Defense
Agreement is interesting; it is a hint that the Pakistani strategic
forces will be used for any contingency and enhance joint
deterrence. It also automatically treats an attack on one to be an
attack on the other. Unlike NATO, it leaves no room for consultation
between the principals and leaves no ambiguity. In case there were any
comprehension issues, the subsequent Pakistani comments clarified that
the pact is a comprehensive agreement that encompasses all military
means."

---

The American Conservative: "Reports that TikTok will transfer an 80
percent stake in its U.S. operations to Oracle, Silver Lake, and
Andreessen Horowitz are celebrated in Washington as a strategic
victory over China, where its parent company is based. But a closer
examination of the deal reveals a different winner: the foreign
government of Israel and its lobby in the United States...

[Remember back in November 2023] panic over TikTok’s 'pro-terror'
algorithm reached a crescendo after young people on the app discovered
Osama bin Laden’s 'Letter to America' through their 'For You'
page. For the first time, many Gen Zers read the Al Qaeda leader’s own
explanation for why the U.S. was attacked on 9/11—an explanation that
had nothing to do with hating 'our freedoms,' as official Washington
had long insisted, and everything to do with U.S. militarism abroad,
particularly on behalf of Israel... TikTok’s capacity to totally and
instantaneously shatter decades of neoconservative propaganda revealed
what Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, would
label Israel’s 'TikTok problem'..

The acquisition of TikTok by Oracle, Silver Lake, and Andreessen
Horowitz is therefore not simply a reshuffling of corporate control,
but the latest step to consolidate a foreign government’s censorship
regime in America. The app’s new owners openly display their affection
for, and often loyalty toward, Israel."

---

MSN: "In a major development.. the [Indian] Ministry of Railways has
informed that the government will launch the hydrogen-powered train
set soon.

- India's first hydrogen-powered train service will operate on the
  route connecting Haryana's Jind and Sonipat

- India is set to become the fifth country globally, alongside
  Germany, France, Sweden, and China, to deploy trains powered by
  hydrogen technology.

- The new train will be the world's most powerful and longest
  hydrogen-powered train

- The train will have a capacity to transport 2,600 passengers.

- The testing of the first hydrogen-powered train coach was completed
  at Chennai's Integral Coach Factory (ICF).

- The technology driving these trains involves each power car carrying
  220 kg of hydrogen stored in specially designed cylinders
  pressurized to 350 bar.

- The system will power traction motors through fuel cells to generate
  electricity by combining hydrogen with oxygen, releasing only water
  vapour as a by-product."

---

F24: "Kim Jong Un says dialogue with US possible if denuclearisation
demands dropped"

---

OpenCV has a MOG2 implementation.. OpenCV is of course free and open
source. That's how science, engineering develops, through open
collaboration not through commercial entities. For-profit types are
spoon-fed their innovations, and walk around as if they created the
world anew. But we are the wind beneath their wings.

---

ViBe, SuBSENSE - even better. And again, not NN

---

You can't beat Beat MOG2 on all criteria, try it

---

Ask Hinton, "the godfather of AI" what he used in the 90s. That stuff
still works, much improved today with extra frills but core technique
is the same.

---

Neural nets (as in LLMs) are not the default solution in many AI
tasks.  They are clunky and don't perform well in all categories..
For computer vision background extraction, streaming video, SOTA is
still non neural-net based. Top two methods are probabilistic / use
non-parametric statistics, they use solid mathematics, not shoving
some data into a dumb-dumb black box... Before your clunky neural-net
can be written, deployed, maintained, my probabilistic model will
leave it in the dust.

---

Ellisons are Zio. I hope they lose if there is a bidding war.

---

Some were speculating abt a possible sale, that Zaslaw funded the
creation of DCU to make WB's brand more attractive for purchase.

Variety: "The Ellisons are mulling a Paramount Skydance acquisition of
Warner Bros. Discovery"

---

Cullinane: "[W]e hoped the middle- and upper-class capture of the [UK]
media would lessen. It’s got worse.. Since our last survey, we find
more columnists, podcasters and executives are from privileged
backgrounds. That’s too narrow a segment of society"

---

Arab News: "Netherlands plans to ban imports from Israel’s Jewish
settlements"

---

NYT: "Britain, Australia, Canada and Portugal Recognize a Palestinian State"

---

MEE: "Amnesty names companies contributing to apartheid and genocide
in Gaza..  The NGO named 15 companies on which it said it has gathered
credible evidence. This list includes American aircraft manufacturer
Boeing, whose munitions were used in Gaza, the Chinese company
Hikvision, which is a world leader in facial recognition technology,
and the American software manufacturer Palantir, which provides
services to the Israeli army and intelligence services."

---

NBC News: "Saudi Arabia and nuclear-armed Pakistan have signed a
mutual defense pact that defines any attack on either nation as an
attack on both"

---

The fact that the attack was not deterred despite Qatar's strong
relationship with the US (hosting a base, lavish gifts to Trump),
would have forced the Saudis look for options.

Reuters: "Saudi pact puts Pakistan's nuclear umbrella into Middle East
security picture.. Gulf Arab states said Israel, which has never
confirmed or denied possessing nuclear weapons, had shown itself to be
a direct threat following its unprecedented strikes on Qatar last week"

---

These are the Russian gains this year, since January 2025. 

[[-]](ukrdata/map36.html)

---

Kellogg must be a paid shill of the MIC, an ongoing war, however
terrible its consequences on the Ukranian side, is still profitable.

"Keith Kellogg on Monday said he and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff recently advised President Trump that Russia is losing its
war on Ukraine"

---

A second pro shooter is likely, that means Kirk was killed by an
organized entity, for a specific purpose. What could that purpose be?
The most powerful entity is the military-industrial complex. Possible
reasons - trying to change the subject from something they feared
more, attempting to foment civil war knowing they would profit from
it, or Kirk's recent doubts about Zionism (no-no, wars in ME are a
major source of profits). Whatever their reasons, we need to be clear,
Kirk would not have been sacrificed if he was a loyal soldier of the
Zionist cause. His doubts, and the fact that he aired them so publicly
would have moved him up in the list, in that list of possible targets.

---

They shifted the moment he nodded to the point where he was told his
alleged motive so he looked like he was accepting it which is
different from the local TV version. That means the modification was
made at the ABC. Small things like this matter.. a manipulation here,
a manipulation there.. this is how perception is controlled...

I see traces of corporate cover-up here.

---

\#BodyLanguage \#Robinson

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/gW0YM8uI7kg?start=1152&end=1370)

---

.30-06 will blow your head off, it is retarded they even talk about
this. They should have picked a better patsy.

---

CK was not hit by .30-06 caliber bullet (the one used by the suspect's
rifle). It was probably 22 (what the real shooter used).

---

\#Kirk \#MegynKelly

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/n2qn0mvSCig?start=295&end=387)

---

A Navy Seal sniper says the shot heard in the Kirk video sounds
muffled, not muffled as in silenced, muffled like the shot was made
from inside an apartment, possibly a few rooms behind an open window.

One spectator at the scene did say when he was watching Kirk speak,
facing him, he heard the shot from *his left*, not behind, (Robinson's
location). And after hit CK was thrown towards his left (sad scene to
watch, RIP) hinting the bullet coming from his right (spectator's
left).

The building marked in the pic could be the likely location for the
second (real) shooter. The guy was almost certainly a pro. For
Robinson, a 200 yard shot, with a "cold muzzle", added stress, wind
conditions, and that specific rifle would be next to impossible to
accomplish.  Plus there are other things abt the man that just don't
add up.

[Link](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/115/224/481/037/289/443/original/c0c878b0b1441e4b.jpg)

---

\#Ukraine 09/09 - 09/19

[[-]](ukrdata/map35.html)

---

