# Week 27

If the deal is signed why are they not boasting abt the details?

One claim is the deal contains major concessions from China which, if
made public, would make it clear Xi had nothing to do with the deal
that in turn would the make it obvious other power centers are in
charge in China, rather than Xi. Those centers asked US to delay
releasing the details and WH agreed. 

Al Jazeera: "Trump says US has signed trade deal with China"

---

The Verge: "Tesla’s robotaxi rollout has been rockier than the fanboys
and influencers who got early access to the company’s driverless
vehicles would like you to believe. And thanks to these diligent
Redditors, we now have a list of all the mistakes the company’s
“unsupervised” vehicles have made in the first couple days.

Some are relatively minor, like failing to recognize a reversing UPS
truck while trying to pull into a parking space or driving over a
curb. Others are more worrisome, like briefly driving on the wrong
side of the road or dropping passengers off in the middle of a busy
intersection.

Several incidents involve 'phantom braking,' in which the vehicle
stops suddenly for seemingly no reason. Tesla’s camera-only perception
system has long had problems with phantom braking, appearing to
misinterpret shadows, road marking, or other environmental factors,
which triggers the vehicle’s automatic emergency braking. The Reddit
list includes three incidents of phantom braking."

---

Sirota: "[A] rare & candid admission that Pod Save truly is the
faction that doesnt care about the substance ('put his politics
aside') Inculcated by Obama, this faction cares only about aesthetics
& doesn’t see how its substance-free version of Democratic politics is
precisely what voters have come to hate about Dems. They don’t
understand — or they don’t WANT to understand — that anti-oligarch
politics doesn’t have to be merely a brand/aesthetic, and that you
can’t just put those politics 'aside' from some allegedly separate
brand. In this era of oligarchy, the substance — not merely the
aesthetic — is what is galvanizing people."

>Jon Favreau: Put whatever views you may have about Mamdani’s
>politics aside for a moment: When was the last time you saw a
>candidate campaign like this? [describing Mamdani's walks in NYC]'

---

"Two-Factor Authentication.. In French, the word for 'factor' is
'facteur'. But it has another meaning: mailman. Yes, the one who
delivers letters in your physical mailbox. For this reason, there is a
funny meme in French where 2FA is in fact your mailman coming in and
confirming that it's you."

<img width='340' src='https://eldritchcafe.files.fedi.monster/media_attachments/files/114/759/871/912/018/095/small/151b69ac74d65936.png'/>

---

CEM: "In the UK, you can be jailed for opposing genocide but not for
supporting it.. This is what happens when the people who commit
genocide are in charge..

The British government has been attacking our freedoms in recent
years, particularly since October 7, and those attacks have only
worsened since we got a Labour government. The most sinister strategy
has been to abuse counter-terrorism laws to silence anyone who calls
out Israel's genocide.

As you surely know, their latest effort in this regard is to proscribe
Palestine Action, classing it as a terrorist organisation. The
proscription could come into effect within a week, and would mean
anyone in the UK who expresses support for Palestine Action could face
up to 14 years in jail."

---

\#Ukraine 06/21 - 06/30

[[-]](ukrdata/map25.html)

---

Did DJT undermine the "Global Nato" concept promoted by Brits (turning
NATO into their tool to spread chaos all over the globe furthering
their interests -music to MIC's ears as such an org wld increase their
sales-)

Politico: "Trump casts doubt on Article 5 commitment en route to NATO
summit.. The U.S. president leaked an obsequious message sent by
NATO’s Rutte, showing the summit is designed to keep him interested in
European security."

---

An F35 was nearly downed by Houthis? Another caught by Iranian air
def. Maybe not surprising, this plane designed by commitee, many
nations were made part of its design, so it was easy for its designs
to leak and rival AF's adapting to its stealth tech.

---

Sirota: "Thoughts & prayers for the Pod Save Guys, the Abundance Guys
& all the other Dems up late tonight crafting two different versions
of press releases/podcasts to go out tomorrow night - either claiming
Zohran's win as their own or claiming Cuomo's win as proof they've
been right to bash the left"

---

The Lever: "Democratic Assemblyman Zohran Mamdani’s mayoral primary
victory in New York City has prompted an elite panic, the likes of
which we’ve rarely seen: Billionaires are desperately seeking a
general-election candidate to stop him, former Barack
Obama aides are publicly melting down, corporate moguls
are threatening a capital strike, and CNBC has become a television
forum for nervous breakdowns. Meanwhile, Democratic elites who’ve
spent a decade punching left are suddenly trying to align themselves
with and take credit for Mamdani’s brand (though not necessarily his
agenda).

On the surface, this freak-out can seem as if it’s about
policy. Mamdani’s proposals for free buses, universal free child care,
faster small-business licensing, higher taxes on the rich, some
publicly owned grocery stores, a higher minimum wage, and rent freezes
are indeed shocking to oligarchs conditioned to getting everything
they want. When you’re so accustomed to privilege, the most minimally
humane policies for others can seem like oppression — and Mamdani’s
agenda probably feels that way to New York’s billionaires, CEOs, and
neoliberals."

---

Sirota: "Huge congratulations to the Pod Save Guys, the Abundance Guys
and all the Democratic pundits who suddenly discovered Mamdani and
started saying nice things about him less than 36 hours ago as soon as
the Polymarket odds shifted - this victory is all you guys, great work"

---

Birthright citizenship was a bad idea.. Culture forms, inherited as a
person grows up in it, not merely borns there, or is born to native
parents. 

---

So the leak was not from the "depths", but at the surface?

Axios: "The Trump administration plans to limit sharing classified
information with Congress after someone leaked an internal assessment
suggesting that Saturday's bombings of Iran's nuclear facilities
weren't as successful as President Trump claimed, four sources tell
Axios."

---

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.masto.host/mastodonie/media_attachments/files/114/759/313/328/090/971/small/480f5c21c8ccfe2a.png'/>

---

Military parades sign of militocracy heritage (rather than mercentile
@#!# profiting from it). They are a good thing. US' foundation
chemistry is all wrong.. To much bihness, not enough order,
discipline.

----

Doom game running in a PDF.

[[-]](https://doompdf.pages.dev/doom.pdf)

---

Without open/free software a lot of those high flying hi-tech
for-profit Valley fucktards would not exist.

---
                                            
Of course they are pulling data from open source data repo OSM.

"@kytta@polymaths.social

The street that my mum lives in is a one-way street, but wasn't marked
as such on #Google Maps. This caused many drivers to drive the wrong
way. I have tried to edit it on Google Maps (there is such
functionality), but to no avail. No matter how often I submitted a
change (with photos of street signs!), Google said "Sorry, we could
not verify it".

Solution: Edit the street on #OpenStreetMap! A few months after I did
this, Google seems to have stolen the data, as it regularly does, and
now the street is correct in both datasets!"

---

It seems DJT created a spectacle to "own" the war so he could create a
ceasefire through it. I am glad he was skewered by MAGA whatever the
intent.

---

"[06/15] Senator John Boozman just filed a purchase of Rahtheon stock, RTX.

Boozman sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. "

---

"US Congressman Rob Bresnahan bought LMT, Lockheed Martin, a weapons
manufacturer on 05/15/2025.

Representative Jared Moskowitz bought LMT on 04/07/2025"

---

COO of Lockheed Martin: "We are in the beginning of a 3 to 5 year
surge in defense spending" via \#StatusCoup

---

"[Mamdani] has also expressed his opinion that Benjamin Netanyahu, the
prime minister of Israel, ought to be arrested if he were to visit New
York City."

---

Economic Times: "Zohran Mamdani, a 33-year-old democratic socialist
and proud Muslim, won the NYC Democratic mayoral primary. Mamdani, an
advocate for Palestinian rights and a critic of Israel's policies,
seeks to bring diverse communities together by emphasizing
affordability..

His criticism of Israel's ongoing genocide in Gaza has been harsh, and
he has expressed support for the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
movement...

---

"How Zohran Mamdani’s Big Goals Could Transform Life in New York
City.. The NYC mayoral candidate has made history. Learn more about
the groundbreaking measures he’s proposing, from free buses to
city-owned supermarkets."

---

Reuters: "Self-described democratic socialist Zohran Mamdani's
unexpected upset in New York City's Democratic mayoral primary on
Tuesday exhilarated progressive activists, who had banded together to
prevent the more moderate former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo from
triumphing."

---
