# Week 1

A goverment of cocksuckers, by cocksuckers, for cocksuckers.. Guess
what bitch.. it can perish off the face of this earth. It happened
before, and it can happen again.

---

Andersen, *Evil Geniuses*: "And 1978 was also a tipping-point year in
the economic right’s crusade to persuade people that because
government now sucked, all taxes paid to all governments by everyone,
no matter how wealthy, were way too high and also sucked. The
overwhelmingly Democratic Congress overwhelmingly passed and the
Democratic president [Carter] signed into law a huge reduction in
taxes on income from selling stocks, capital gains—a definitive turn
toward making extra-sure the rich got richer faster..

During the 1980s, federal antitrust enforcement budgets and cases were
cut back to the levels of thirty and fifty years earlier. A true
libertarian OG who wanted to privatize Social Security, Greenspan
became Federal Reserve chairman in 1987 (and stayed in the job into
the new century). Democratic presidents now governed like liberal
Republicans, instructing Americans that 'all the legislation in the
world can’t fix what’s wrong with America' (Carter) and that 'the era
of big government is over' (Clinton)..

In 1977 President Carter declined to work hard for a bill that
would’ve given construction workers greater power to strike, and it
was defeated in the House, where Democrats had a two-to-one
majority. The next year the same Congress was considering a labor law
change that would’ve made it easier for all workers to unionize.  The
CEOs of fully unionized GM and GE were disinclined to oppose the bill,
but their fellow Business Roundtable member who ran the barely
unionized Sears persuaded them to lobby against it—and capitalist
solidarity carried the day. It too was defeated. Carter and most
Democrats shrugged"

---

Politico: "Jimmy Carter Wasn’t a Liberal.. These misconceptions seem
plausible today because Carter’s four-decade post-presidency was
notably more left-leaning than his presidency ever was. The
ex-president’s peace missions to North Korea and Cuba and his frequent
criticisms of U.S. policies regarding everything from the Palestinians
(whose treatment by Israel he famously likened to apartheid) to
domestic surveillance (“unprecedented violations of our rights to
privacy”) positioned Carter well to the left of Republican and
Democratic successors alike...

In truth, the pendulum started swinging to the [economic] right before
Carter took office, and continued doing so under Carter’s
presidency. Reagan didn’t change the pendulum’s direction; he just
accelerated its speed...

Carter, a former governor in the conservative Deep South, preferred to
point out that there was much government *couldn’t* do. 'There is a
limit to the role and the function of government,' Carter said in his
1978 State of the Union speech. 'Government cannot solve our
problems'"

[[-]](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2024/12/30/jimmy-carter-conservative-00084028)

---

AP News: "Jet crash disaster in South Korea marks another setback for
Boeing"

---

Milman, *The Guardian*: "The United States, with its enormous
highways, sprawling suburbs and neglected public transport systems, is
one of the most car-dependent countries in the world. But this
arrangement of obligatory driving is making many Americans actively
unhappy."

---

"@nutjob4life@fosstodon.org

Continental breakfasts should be served on tectonic plates"

---
