# Week 15

Bus-News: "In France, the Urban Community of Dunkirk and the Grand
Annecy Agglomeration have ordered hydrogen-powered H2 city buses from
IVECO BUS"

---

ZNet: "What Would a General Strike in the US Actually Look
Like?.. Calls for a general strike in the US are growing... Calls for
mass disruptive action are coming from unlikely places, like Anthony
Romero, executive director of the ACLU, an organization normally
associated with legal action through the courts.. Some in organized
labor are also entering the fray"

---

\#NovaraMedia

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/ss9jVpLA7-0?start=1956&end=2090)

---

"New Research Reveals How AI 'Thinks' (It Doesn’t)"

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/-wzOetb-D3w?start=111&end=231)

---

"@rafial@hackers.town

Transformational technologies like microcomputers and smartphones were
so obviously useful that rank and file workers were smuggling them
into their workflows despite the best efforts of CEOs to stop them.

The 'transformational' technology of LLMs is so obviously anti-useful
that CEOs must resort to threats and coercion to get their rank and
file workers to go anywhere near them.

---

"@pushcx@ruby.social

Microsoft allowed me to opt-out from having my data used for LLM
training. And also opts me back in after a few tenths of a second, so
I can be allowed to opt out again and again"

---

Mesquita, *FP Analysis and Rational Choice Models*: "Although the
opportunity for a negotiated agreement exists, a few disputes
nevertheless become wars. This seems puzzling, much as labor strikes
or lawsuits seem puzzling. Of course, from the perspective of the
welfare of a nation-state, by which I mean the welfare of the majority
of the citizenry, war, like strikes and litigation, is always *ex
post* inefficient. That is, knowing how a war turned out, there must
have existed an *ex ante*, Pareto improving outcome, an outcome that
at least could have avoided the transaction costs for each side
associated with conducting and concluding the war.

As James Fearon has argued, war, looked at from the perspective of
states, can only arise rationally if at least one of three conditions
exists: an asymmetry of information, a commitment problem, or a
dispute over an indivisible good so important a contributor to the
danger of war that it is sometimes argued that all the other
rationalist explanations are just special cases of this condition:
that war is, in Gartzke’s (1999) memorable phrase, in the error term.
Bueno de Mesquita and Lalman (1992) and Slantchev (2003), in a more
general setting, provide models in which war can arise without
uncertainty because of commitment problems. Commitment problems arise
when one or the other party cannot trust the rival’s statements
because the rival has incentives to renege on promises.

Indivisibility means that the contest is necessarily a winner-take-all
affair so that there is no room for compromise, probably leaving the
dispute to devolve into a war of attrition.  Civil wars and other
disputes over governing a given territory sometimes are indivisible.
Naturally, if there is not some way to compensate a player for a loss
of this sort, the problem does not have a bargaining range. One side
wins and the other loses. Impatience can come into play as a source of
commitment problems or uncertainty about when the expected future
stream of benefits from behaving aggressively now will be sufficiently
large that it is worth tolerating the short-term costs of war"

---

Would warring parties fight a war if they knew the outcome beforehand?
The answer can sometimes be yes. One IR researcher had better language
around that, see above

---

UA/RU war might have some life in it yet. It can go on for another 3-4
months until one side gets its ass throughly kicked. That side likely
won't be Russia.

---

H2 Central: "A new wave of hydrogen powered projects have been
shortlisted today to help cut emissions and create thousands of jobs
in the UK’s industrial heartlands – driving growth as part of the
government’s Plan for Change"

---

Fuel Cells Works: "Viking and Fincantieri Announce World’s First
Hydrogen-Powered Cruise Ship and Two New Ship Orders"

---

"@ArchaeoIain@archaeo.social

@SmudgeTheInsultCat the good news is that everyone realised what a
disaster privatisation has been. The bad news is that it is probably
too difficult to do anything about it without a revolution"

---

"@SmudgeTheInsultCat@mas.to

It's really funny how America and the UK stopped investing in
infrastructure in the 1980s because the free market will pave potholes
and make the trains run on time and now literally nothing works and
you cannot go anywhere or do anything but like 4 people are richer
than God."

---

Why MMT Is a Ruse

[[-]](2025/04/mmt-ruse.html)

---

I liked most of his movies. VK had a good career, did not get
pigeonholed in that general jock type ala Iceman, played everything
under the sun, a singer, gunslinger, space mechanic...

---

I'll never forget the interview VK gave to a TR journo back in 2000s,
said he dated the ex-wife of a Cypriot-TR bidnessman A. Nadir, and
when he went to her house saw the place was full of weapons, and
(stolen) Roman artifacts. Kilmer said he bought a few from her and the
local media and gov went into a tailspin, bcz he inadvertantly outed
historical artifact smuggling and trade. It was hilarious.. He
came across as a free spirit kinda guy, no inhibitions.

---

Val Kilmer RIP

---

Right after the Civil War... I knew the mainstay gun of Western
movies, the Colt, is army issue, a US government service revolver. The
same type of gun shows up in Civil War movies too.

BBC: "Most westerns are set in the 'Old West' (or 'Wild West'), a
surprisingly short period from about 1865 to the end of the 19th
Century"

---

"Zoom sucks, we started having editorial meetings in Red Dead
Redemption instead. It's nice to sit at the campfire and discuss
projects, with the wolves howling out in the night"

---

More goodies from Douche

WaPo: "Retirees and disabled people are facing chronic website outages
and other access problems as they attempt to log in to their online
Social Security accounts, even as they are being directed to do more
of their business with the agency online...  The technology staff did
not test the new [supposed fraud check] software against a high volume
of users to see if the servers could handle the rush, these officials
said."

---

Can Canada join the EU?

---

Over! Done!

Politico: "Canada says its friendship with the US is ‘over.’"

---

\#Frontline \#Ukraine 03/31 - 04/07

[[-]](mbl/2025/ukrdata/map15.html)

---

Richardson: "[A] reactionary mindset came to dominate the Republican
Party after Ronald Reagan’s election in 1980. Republicans began to
insist that anyone who embraced the liberal consensus of the past
several decades was un-American and had no right to govern, no matter
how many Americans supported that ideology... The idea of a small
government that serves the needs of a few wealthy people, Lincoln
warned in his era, is 'the same old serpent that says you work and I
eat, you toil and I will enjoy the fruits of it. Turn in whatever way
you will—whether it come from the mouth of a King, an excuse for
enslaving the people of his country, or from the mouth of men of one
race as a reason for enslaving the men of another race, it is all the
same old serpent'”

---

Richardson: "Lincoln had watched his town of New Salem die because its
settlers—hard workers, eager to make the town succeed—could not dredge
the Sangamon River to promote trade by themselves. Lincoln later
mused, 'The legitimate object of government is to do for the people
what needs to be done, but which they can not, by individual effort,
do at all, or do so well, for themselves'… as public roads and
highways, public schools, charities, pauperism, orphanage, estates of
the deceased, and the machinery of government itself'"

---

IOW if you modify copyleft licensed software, you have to make your
modification public, you cannot make it closed source. The license
enforces this. The copyleft license has been challenged in court and
it worked. This is a sneaky way of spreading openness. After a while
the network effect kicks in, good software is open, more people use
it, contribute to it, which means more good software becomes open.

---

GNU: "Copyleft [as opposed to copy*right*] is a general method for
making a program.. free.. and requiring all modified and extended
versions of the program to be free as well. The simplest way to make a
program free software is to put it in the public domain,
uncopyrighted. This allows people to share the program and their
improvements, if they are so minded. But it also allows uncooperative
people to convert the program into proprietary software.. In the GNU
project, our aim is to give all users the freedom to redistribute and
change GNU software. If middlemen could strip off the
freedom.. instead of putting GNU software in the public domain, we
'copyleft' it. Copyleft says that anyone who redistributes the
software, with or without changes, must pass along the freedom to
further copy and change it"

---

CleanTechnica: "In addition to domestic production, the EU is leaning
on overseas markets to feed its green hydrogen hunger... Canada is
laying plans to export its green hydrogen to Europe through Belgium,
and stakeholders in northern Africa are eyeballing a pipeline to the
EU through Italy... *Bloomberg* reports that TotalEnergies is planning
to import green hydrogen from Brazil to supply its petroleum
refineries in Europe...

Among those other value-driving projects is the company’s massive
green hydrogen facility in Saudi Arabia, attached to the country’s
ambitious NEOM planned city. 'The NEOM green hydrogen project in Saudi
Arabia is approaching 80 percent completion, with green ammonia
production expected to commence at the end of 2026', Air Products
notes. Saudi Arabia has already lined up Germany as an off-taker for
its green hydrogen. Word of the deal with Germany surfaced in
February, and last week it became official...

Belgium tasked its Monarch, King Philippe, to travel to Vietnam with a
large entourage for some deal-making in a number of areas including
green hydrogen. The leading Belgian electrolyzer firm John Cockerill
took a preliminary step towards investing in a Vietnamese electrolyzer
factory during the trip. 'A spokesman for the Belgian firm said the
agreements were the first step for a possible investment in a Vietnam
factory to manufacture pressurised alkaline water electrolysers,'
*Reuters* reported"

---

Gary Stevenson: "At the moment the story we have about.. what a
wealthy economy is, is about individualism. It is about
entrepreneurism, it is about every man for himself. I think there are
good sides to this but the fact is the only power the poor and the
ordinary working people have ever had to protect themselves against
the rich is power in numbers, and when you make ordinary people
extremely individualistic, they lose that.

I have a YouTube channel that says very clearly "listen, your kids and
your grandkids are going to live in really bad poverty and the only
way to stop that is to fight together to tax the rich more".  I've
been doing that for years and the number one most common comment I get
on the channel by a million miles is "how do I make more money?". I'm
not against one person going out [saying] "I'm going to make money,
I'm going to get rich for me and my family". I'm not against that. But
we send this message out like success is all about what you put in,
when in reality success in today's society is 90% dad.. 10% which you
put in"

---

"@codinghorror@infosec.exchange

I wondered why the history of civil rights was so especially brutal in
Birmingham, AL, versus other southern cities (historians consider it
the most brutal). Then I learned it was a company town. Now go look up
why healthcare is so historically screwed up in the USA. We should be
teaching the root causes first"

---

Retirement money. On the stock market.. People do not seem to the
realize the stupidity of that. Take the thing that u want most safe,
and put it on the most unsafe assets with legendary volatility.

---

\#AlJazeera \#ZionistDox

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/wYWFTeLup9Y?start=283&end=338)

---

Jalopnik: "Honda Is Shipping A Hydrogen Fuel Cell With Lunar Ambitions
To The International Space Station.. As humanity ventures back to the
Moon.. space agencies and their contractors will have to devise
methods to use available resources as efficiently as possible. Honda
is bringing its hydrogen fuel cell expertise to the table with a new
circulative renewable energy system. The automotive conglomerate plans
on sending the core of its water electrolysis system to the
International Space Station to verify its efficiency and reliability
in microgravity. Honda's ultimate goal is to use its technology to
support a lunar outpost"

<img width='340' src='https://www.jalopnik.com/img/gallery/honda-is-shipping-a-hydrogen-fuel-cell-with-lunar-ambitions-to-the-international-space-station/intro-1743721721.webp'/>

---

Flight Global: "Partners hail success of hydrogen helicopter first
flight [at Bromont airport in Quebec, Canada].. Unither
Bioelectronique (UB) is claiming several aviation firsts following the
first flight of a piloted hydrogen fuel cell-powered helicopter"

---

Scott Galloway: "There would be no SpaceX without Nasa, its largest
customer. Tesla built its Fremont factory with a $465m DoE loan in
2010, and its first 200,000 cars benefited from tax credit subsidies
of up to 7,500 dollars. For years the company was able to report
profits thanks to the ‘sale’ of emissions credits to other
carmakers. All told, the company has accepted an estimated 2.5bn in
government support. And all of those subsidies went through the
federal payments machine"

---

The Guardian: "Climate crisis on track to destroy capitalism, warns
top insurer.. 'The world is fast approaching temperature levels where
insurers will no longer be able to offer cover for many climate
risks', said Günther Thallinger, on the board of Allianz SE, one of
the world’s biggest insurance companies. He said that without
insurance, which is already being pulled in some places, many other
financial services become unviable, from mortgages to investments."

---

Same issue, would US defend Taiwan commiting all its forces?

```python
u.beckley("United States","China")
```

```text
10.68
```

---

That said, the measure IMO assumes all-out war. Sending troops, tanks,
etc. Would US commit those forces to an Iranian fight? I highly doubt
it.

---

US / Iran is terribly disadvantageous for Iran, but Iran's GDP
probably does not capture their true innovation capacity because they
cannot trade freely due to sanctions. However I would not go crazy to
give them too much credit either, they are probably at a TR level,
which means 100 to 1 against US.

---

Code below returns, for country A,B, Beckley measure for country A
divided by country B. If it is larger than 1, country A wins.

```python
u.beckley("Russian Federation","Ukraine")
```

```text
35.81
```

RU has over 35 times war making capacity of Ukraine.

---

Mil hardware comparison between countries shows their current build up
but not their potential. Strategist Michael Beckley says that
potential is captured in a country's GDP per capita that is a stand-in
variable for innovation. His combined measure for war fighting
effectiveness is GDP per capita x GDP. Backtest on history shows the
measure works well.

[[-]](2021/03/power-of-nations-beckley-code.html)

---

FYI all our ME maps take its raw data (w/ some TW preprocessing) from
Suriyak.

---

Suriyak: "In response to the ground operation in southern Daraa, local
forces attacked Israeli troops yesterday, wounding some of their
ranks. Meanwhile, insurgent forces and civilians killed eight people,
who were buried today in the town of Nawa.

The insurgency against Israel is taking shape. The so-called Islamic
Resistance Front in Syria is gaining followers since its creation on
December 17, 2024.

Unlike the Alawite-majority Coastal Shield Brigade, the IRFS is an
amalgam of Sunni-majority groups composed of former members of the SAA
and SSNP militias as well as rebel factions from southern Syria which
have been moving closer to Iran since the Israeli invasion after the
fall of the Syrian government.

Indeed, Tehran is trying to maintain its influence in Syria by
financing and creating a strong anti-Zionist resistance in the south
of the country similar to that of southern Lebanon. Moreover, given
the passivity of HTS and allies in the face of Israeli attacks during
the last 48 hours the IRFS will continue to gain strength within the
Southern Operations Room which could gradually become yet another
front questioning the authority of Damascus similar to that of the
Druze"

---

Jim Cramer declares "I'm not a free trader!" only to make the
globalist case against tariffs a second later.. 

---

I took out my 401k after I left United States. It was 2003 and another
stupid, endless war had just started... Sucks to be you if your 401k
was on that sham market, fed by the money of the wealthy.

---

The Buffett Indicator is at 180%, the stock market is still overvalued.

---

Everyone's digging up anti-Trump quotes now, it's that kind of time..

"@Meyerweb@mastodon.social

'If we nominate Trump, we will get destroyed ... and we will deserve it.'

—Lindsey Graham, 2016"

---

Middle East Eye: "[T]rade relations between the two countries [TR,US]
are already quite balanced.. Turkey recorded only a $200m trade
surplus with the US last year, exporting 16.4bn dollars worth of goods
and importing 16.2bn"

---

Only 10% tariff on TR

---

OSS rules

"@bgergely0@mastodon.social

Just got my first patched merged into the #V8 #javascript engine
today. It was a very small change in code, but caused serious
performance uplift - an average of ~4% over a number of #webassembly
benchmarks, some of which was even over 20%!"

---
