# Week 34

WaPo: "Florida ordered to dismantle Alligator Alcatraz over
environmental impact.. The ruling, which gives the state 60 days to
act, comes as Gov. Ron DeSantis plans to convert a prison in North
Florida into a second immigrant detention site."

---

Firstpost: "Trump suggests Ukraine should attack Russia. Have peace
talks stalled already? He first played peacemaker. Now, he’s
suggesting Ukraine should attack Russia. Donald Trump seems to be
shifting his stance once again on the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. He
indicated that it would be ‘impossible’ for Kyiv to win the war
without attacking Moscow"

---

H2 Central: "European refiners are set to require ~0.5 million tonnes
of green hydrogen annually by 2030 to comply with EU regulations,
replacing about 30% of current CO2-emitting hydrogen
production. Refining represents one of the largest hydrogen
opportunities globally, which, alongside ammonia and methanol
production, accounts for 98% of current demand."

---

The Lever: "Monopolists Just Got Their Hall Pass Revoked.. Business
empires have long used 'refusal to deal' tactics to protect their
monopolies — but now, judges are pushing back."

---

H2 Central: "The NASA hydrogen sphere is the world’s largest liquid
hydrogen tank, measuring 90 feet tall and 83 feet in diameter. The
hydrogen will be used to fuel NASA’s Artemis missions, which aim to
return humans to the Moon for the first time since the Apollo era and
establish the first long-term presence on the Moon."

<img width='340' src='https://spinoff.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/2024-05/NASA%20Sphere_SLS_web.jpg'/>

---

H2 Central: "U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) has prototyped a
Hydrogen Small Unit Power (H-SUP) system to reduce detectability and
improve readiness of Marine Corps in expeditionary warfare
operations... NRL’s H-SUP is a portable fuel cell electric generator
with greater energy per weight than batteries and lower audible and
thermal signatures than combustion generators."

---

Ed Frenkel: "[To Bubeck] This is an unwise statement that can only
make people confused about what LLMs can or cannot do... Math is NOT
about solving this kind of ad hoc optimization problems. Yeah, by
scraping available data and then clustering it, LLMs can sometimes
solve some very minor math problems. It's an achievement, and I
applaud you for that. But let's be honest: this is NOT the REAL
Math. Not by 10,000 miles.

REAL Math is about concepts and ideas - things like "schemes"
introduced by the great Alexander Grothendieck, who revolutionized
algebraic geometry; the Atiyah-Singer Index Theorem; or the Langlands
Program, tying together Number Theory, Analysis, Geometry, and Quantum
Physics. That's the REAL Math. Can LLMs do that? Of course not.

So, please, STOP confusing people - especially, given the atrocious
state of our math education.

LLMs give us great tools, which I appreciate very much. Useful stuff!
Go ahead and use them AS TOOLS (just as we use calculators to crunch
numbers or cameras to render portraits and landscapes), an enhancement
of human abilities, and STOP pretending that LLMs are somehow capable
of replicating everything that human beings can do."

---

"@sebastienbubeck

Claim: gpt-5-pro can prove new interesting mathematics.

Proof: I took a convex optimization paper with a clean open problem in
it and asked gpt-5-pro to work on it. It proved a better bound than
what is in the paper, and I checked the proof it's correct."

---

Mini PCs required too much power, this thing can run of off a solar
panel, and still do all the Unix-level heavy lifting. Add a bluetooth
external keyboard, the whole package has same weight as a notebook,
but not as klunky. Pieces are seperate, repair / replace as needed.

---

`Proot` worked well.. I have a fully working Linux running on a stock
tablet now. Ultra-mobility problem solved. 

---

Firstpost: "UN-backed group expected to formally declare famine in
Gaza"

---

"@GeofCox@climatejustice.social

An alliance between the new Corbyn/Sultana party and the Green Party
would be popular among UK voters, with 31% saying they would consider
voting for a united ticket. This rises to a majority (52%) among
16-34s and includes nearly half (46%) of 2024 Labour voters."

---

BBC: "Hundreds of thousands of user conversations [w] chatbot Grok
have been exposed in search engine results - seemingly without users'
knowledge.. Unique links are created when Grok users press a button to
share a transcript of their conversation - but as well as sharing the
chat with the intended recipient, the button also appears to have made
the chats searchable online. A Google search on Thursday revealed it
had indexed nearly 300,000 Grok conversations. It has led one expert
to describe AI chatbots as a 'privacy disaster in progress'"

---

"An unhealthy alliance.. One in four UK MPs have taken pro-Israel
lobby funding, raising urgent questions about foreign influence and
trust in British democracy"

---

That aside, Chim / DDP fight had some transgressions even within the
non-street non-realistic UFC rules. KC was stalling (that's why the
ref broke the fight a few times, he should've done more of that). KC
wanted the title badly, so he fought very, **very**
conservatively. Sadly as a result viewers did not see either men at
their best, not much striking to speak of, and not even much offense
in grappling. Just constant "control" (read: stalling, running out the
clock so KC could win by points).

---

Khamzat Chimaev / DDP fight looked like a dry hump. Anyone who is
interested in self-defense should stay from this shit, away from any
type of UFC-inspired training in general. There are people out there
who will feed you your balls if you move into positions like these
people do. Any legit martial art has stances to protect the groin from
get-go, but these muckers roll around carefree like gay lovers feeling
each other's asses all the time. You like that stuff, fine, but no one
should think that preps for real life bouts. If head butts, pulling
skin, small joint manipulation and other moves are disallowed, that
encourages a certain type of fighting that isn't realistic.

---

Defector: "It's not AI winter just yet, though there is a distinct
chill in the air. Meta is shaking up and downsizing its artificial
intelligence division. A new report out of MIT finds that 95 percent
of companies' generative AI programs have failed to earn any profit
whatsoever. Tech stocks tanked Tuesday, regarding broader fears that
this bubble may have swelled about as large as it can go. Surely,
there will be no wider repercussions for normal people if and when
Nvidia, currently propping up the market like a load-bearing
matchstick, finally runs out of fake companies to sell chips to. But
getting in under the wire, before we're all bartering gas in the
desert and people who can read become the priestly caste, is
Microsoft, with the single most 'Who asked for this?' application of
AI I've seen yet: They're jamming it into Excel...

According to The Verge, 'Microsoft Excel is testing a new AI-powered
function that can automatically fill cells in your spreadsheets.'
Using natural language, the idea goes, you tell it what you want and
then the AI will 'classify information, generate summaries, create
tables, and more.'

If you squint a little, or just look at this through the eyes of a
person or company with a vested financial interest in shoving AI
products into every cranny of your life, you can sort of see the
vision. Excel requires some skill to use (to the point where
high-level Excel is a competitive sport), and AI is mostly an exercise
in deskilling its users and humanity at large. If everything works
right, you'll be able to tell the program, in words, broadly what you
want it to do, rather than have to learn the formulas that already
exist and have for decades, which tell the program exactly what you
want it to do.

Ah, but there's a rub. Microsoft explicitly warns users that its AI
function should not be used for things like 'doing math' or 'anything
actually important':

>When NOT to use the COPILOT function
>
>COPILOT uses AI and can give incorrect responses.
>
>To ensure reliability and to use it responsibly, avoid using COPILOT for:
>
>Numerical calculations: Use native Excel formulas (e.g., SUM, AVERAGE, IF) for any task requiring accuracy or reproducibility.
>
>Tasks with legal, regulatory or compliance implications: Avoid using 
>AI-generated outputs for financial reporting, legal documents, or 
>other high-stakes scenarios"

---

The Guardian: "Microsoft launches inquiry into claims Israel used its
tech for mass surveillance of Palestinians.. Company says use of its
cloud technology to store millions of intercepted calls would breach
terms of service"

---

"@earthshine@masto.hackers.town

I'm looking for basic lodging options around Seattle for a week next
month... prices range from $400 to 2200... *PER DAY*. What the actual
fuck? Is this endgame AirBnB yet? Fucking parasites buying up houses
with 4000/month mortgages and then charging people 15,000 a week to
stay there."

---

WRGB: "Governor Hochul awards $11M to boost clean hydrogen projects in
New York"

---

"@k3ym0@infosec.exchange

It is so hilarious to me that we have FOSS maintainers begging for
money to try to keep the development of NTP ongoing. NTP - you know,
that protocol that the entirety of humanity relies on for access to
the internet (or anything on a network for that matter).

Meanwhile the <s>oligarchy</s> broligarchy makes billions of the backs
of these people.

Anyways, they're currently at $495 of 1000 for their 2025 goal. Go
throw them some [money] if you feel so inclined."

---

"Irish Rail introduces 100 Eur fine for playing music without
earphones."

---
 
China Daily: "China has emerged as a global leader in renewable
energy-based hydrogen production, boasting over 50 percent of the
world's installed capacity, driven by ambitious government policies
and technological advancements..

China's recently enacted energy law includes hydrogen within its
energy framework, which, according to Bian, signals the government's
support for hydrogen development and its potential in the energy mix.

The law, which took effect on Jan 1,2025, aims to promote renewable
energy, enhance energy security and facilitate China's energy
transition. Specifically, it supports the development and utilization
of new fuels and industrial raw materials that can replace oil and
natural gas, which provides a foundation for hydrogen energy's growth."

---

Axios: "Concerns over Americans turning to AI chatbots to solve mental
health problems are prompting new guardrails so people don't become
too dependent on unvetted technology. Why it matters: AI's booming
popularity, the bots' reputation for delivering emotionally validating
responses and a shortage of therapists are making more people turn to
chatbot companions to talk through their problems.

The big picture: The bots aren't designed for those conversations, and
can sometimes exacerbate mental health crises. A Florida teen died by
suicide after developing relationships with chatbot characters on
Character.AI, including one acting as a licensed therapist. His mother
is suing the company."

---

"With coal accounting for 54% of Asia’s power mix last year, the region
faces a significant challenge in meeting its net-zero ambitions. In a
bid to cut emissions, several Asian countries are turning to ammonia
for power generation, particularly through co-firing, blending
low-carbon ammonia with coal or natural gas."

---

<blockquote class="mastodon-embed" data-embed-url="https://mas.to/@PicardTips/115057292241340500/embed" style="background: #FCF8FF; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid #C9C4DA; margin: 0; max-width: 540px; min-width: 270px; overflow: hidden; padding: 0;"> <a href="https://mas.to/@PicardTips/115057292241340500" target="_blank" style="align-items: center; color: #1C1A25; display: flex; flex-direction: column; font-family: system-ui, -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', Oxygen, Ubuntu, Cantarell, 'Fira Sans', 'Droid Sans', 'Helvetica Neue', Roboto, sans-serif; font-size: 14px; justify-content: center; letter-spacing: 0.25px; line-height: 20px; padding: 24px; text-decoration: none;"> <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" width="32" height="32" viewBox="0 0 79 75"><path d="M63 45.3v-20c0-4.1-1-7.3-3.2-9.7-2.1-2.4-5-3.7-8.5-3.7-4.1 0-7.2 1.6-9.3 4.7l-2 3.3-2-3.3c-2-3.1-5.1-4.7-9.2-4.7-3.5 0-6.4 1.3-8.6 3.7-2.1 2.4-3.1 5.6-3.1 9.7v20h8V25.9c0-4.1 1.7-6.2 5.2-6.2 3.8 0 5.8 2.5 5.8 7.4V37.7H44V27.1c0-4.9 1.9-7.4 5.8-7.4 3.5 0 5.2 2.1 5.2 6.2V45.3h8ZM74.7 16.6c.6 6 .1 15.7.1 17.3 0 .5-.1 4.8-.1 5.3-.7 11.5-8 16-15.6 17.5-.1 0-.2 0-.3 0-4.9 1-10 1.2-14.9 1.4-1.2 0-2.4 0-3.6 0-4.8 0-9.7-.6-14.4-1.7-.1 0-.1 0-.1 0s-.1 0-.1 0 0 .1 0 .1 0 0 0 0c.1 1.6.4 3.1 1 4.5.6 1.7 2.9 5.7 11.4 5.7 5 0 9.9-.6 14.8-1.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 .1 0 .1 0 .1 0 0 .1 0 .1 0 .1.1 0 .1 0 .1.1v5.6s0 .1-.1.1c0 0 0 0 0 .1-1.6 1.1-3.7 1.7-5.6 2.3-.8.3-1.6.5-2.4.7-7.5 1.7-15.4 1.3-22.7-1.2-6.8-2.4-13.8-8.2-15.5-15.2-.9-3.8-1.6-7.6-1.9-11.5-.6-5.8-.6-11.7-.8-17.5C3.9 24.5 4 20 4.9 16 6.7 7.9 14.1 2.2 22.3 1c1.4-.2 4.1-1 16.5-1h.1C51.4 0 56.7.8 58.1 1c8.4 1.2 15.5 7.5 16.6 15.6Z" fill="currentColor"/></svg> <div style="color: #787588; margin-top: 16px;">Post by @PicardTips@mas.to</div> <div style="font-weight: 500;">View on Mastodon</div> </a> </blockquote> <script data-allowed-prefixes="https://mas.to/" async src="https://mas.to/embed.js"></script>

---

CNBC: "Tourists are booking cooler, quieter and less crowded vacations
this year, pivoting away from Europe’s traditional summer hotspots
amid growing concerns over blistering heat and raging wildfires. The
trend reaffirms the phenomenon of so-called “coolcations” — a
portmanteau of “cool” and “vacation,” which refers to tourists seeking
cooler climes instead of a hot, peak-summer destination...

'This double blow has accelerated a behavioural shift already in
motion: travellers are avoiding the most intense heat periods,
favouring cooler coastal or alpine locations, moving trips to spring
and autumn, and experimenting with higher-latitude destinations from
the Baltics to the Scottish Highlands,' [expert] said."

---

And extradition is a difficult process hence these people escape
scot-free.

---

The Guardian: "How Jewish American pedophiles hide from justice in
Israel.. [Perps] have been able to exploit a right known as the Law of
Return, whereby any Jewish person can move to Israel and automatically
gain citizenship... "

---

BTW Israel became a sex offender haven

---

"Israeli government official charged with soliciting 15-year-old girl
in Las Vegas.. Alexanderovich was able to return to Israel once he had
bonded out of jail in connection with the felony charge."

---

That's an IDF shirt right there.. Zionist, pedo... It all goes together.

[[-]](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/world-news/2025/08/08/TELEMMGLPICT000435002919_17546597690240_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqVzuuqpFlyLIwiB6NTmJwfSVWeZ_vEN7c6bHu2jJnT8.jpeg?imwidth=640)

---

Cotrin: "I was Epstein's butler for 18 years. There is no way he killed himself."

---

KWST: "Semi-truck carrying Tesla vehicles catches fire, shuts down 5
Freeway in California"

---

\#Turbine \#Russia

[[-]](https://youtu.be/n6Eeq9F__lo?t=74)

---

That is fast changing

"From cars to construction, if something in Russia works, it is
probably European."

---

Khanna, *The Second World*: "[2008] In a nation of privatized
privilege, services that work well—fancy apartment buildings, hotels,
restaurants, health clubs, private taxis—all cater to the elite and
their private economy. For everyone else, things fall apart: Public
transportation systems—roads, tunnels, trains, and buses—are in
various states of disrepair; broadband Internet penetration has fallen
behind Europe’s; mobile telephone networks are substandard; and
archaic taxi cabs don’t accept electronic payment. Even worse, America
may prove to be afflicted by the same oil curse as many second-world
states. Much of its infrastructure was built during the post–World War
II boom when America was the world’s largest oil producer and
exporter — but today its water pipes and power stations are run-down,
causing lead and mercury poisoning and sporadic but massive
blackouts. During New York’s transit strikes in the frigid winter
of 2005, commuters trudging long distances through the snow declared
that they felt like they lived in the third world.  Laissez-faire is a
somewhat inaccurate way to describe America’s social and economic
principles when skewed societal structures actually favor the
perpetuation of inequality"

---

Chimps are bothered by inequality

[[-]](https://youtu.be/GcJxRqTs5nk?t=788)

---

"100x larger hydrogen-rich hydrothermal system found using
submersible.. Scientists have discovered a massive hydrogen-rich
hydrothermal system beneath the western Pacific seafloor. The system
was explored using the crewed submersible Fendouzhe. The system offers
a new glimpse into deep-sea serpentinization—a process in which iron-
and magnesium-rich rocks chemically react with water to form
serpentine minerals and release hydrogen.

<img width='340' src='https://interestingengineering.com/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcms.interestingengineering.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2025%2F08%2Fhydrothermal.jpg&w=1200&q=75'/>

Scientists from the Institute of Oceanology of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences (IOCAS) revealed that the system is critical to understanding
Earth’s internal processes and the conditions that may have fostered
life’s origins."

---

"The Boycott List: A simple boycott list that features Israeli
companies and global entities with significant activities in
Israel. It aims to guide those who seek to make purchasing decisions
that aims to put pressure one the Israeli government and comply with
international law."

[[-]](https://boycott-israel.org/boycott.html)

---
