# Week 11


Brooke Harrington: "Somebody very aptly described these libertarians
as like indoor cats who don't understand what outdoors is, they think
they're like these fiercely independent 'Kings of the Jungle', 'change
my litter', 'feed me fancy feast', that's what they are like, they are
absurd people.. Not too far from where I live like 20 minutes drive
from my house is Grafton New Hampshire which is the site of yet
another failed libertarian experiment, that famously got run out of
town on a rail by bears, because these losers didn't bank on the fact
that they were living in the middle of a forest with animals. That's
how indoor cats they are...

Their ideas cannot fail, they can only be failed. That's a religion,
that's not even politics, and that's why it's so hard point out to
these people 'your ideas don't work' because they they don't have a
rational orientation to them"

---

\#Ad \#Sanders

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/5bQIuLYohPo)

---

"The 'Atlas Shrugged' author [Ayn Rand] called government handouts
'immoral,' but there is evidence that she accepted Social Security
benefits in her later years"

---

Slate: "A new study published on Monday by Opportunity Insights, a
Harvard-based group of economists, confirmed what many have long
suspected: that there is essentially affirmative action in college
admissions for students who are very rich.

Indeed, 1 in 6 Ivy League students have parents in the top 1 percent
of the income bracket. Being in a family in the top 1 percent
increases your chance of admission by 34 percent. Being in the top 0.1
percent doubles it"

---

US needs affirmative action for the poor.

---

NYT: "[2023] Extraordinarily detailed data shows how elite colleges
prefer the richest students, even among students with similar test
scores"

---

Decoupling. Great. Means a reduction of MIC's marketshare.

"@alexlunaview@mastodon.social

THIS IS MASSIVE.  Portugal has cancelled the order for F-35s from the
US and will replace their F-16s with European fighters.  'We have to
be able to count on the predictability of our allies, which is no
longer the case with the United States.'. More EU states to come"

---

Judge ruled douche is an agency so it is subject to FOIA. 

---

"@libreoffice

With the world changing around us, many governments and organisations
are trying to reduce their dependency on tech giants. Here's an [update](https://blog.documentfoundation.org/blog/2025/03/13/updates-on-schleswig-holstein-moving-to-libreoffice/)
on how one German federal state is moving 30,000 PCs to LibreOffice
(and longer-term, Linux)"

---

NYT: "Houthi Drones Could Become Stealthier and Fly Farther.. A new
report documented efforts to smuggle hydrogen fuel cell components
into Yemen that will provide Houthi fighters a technological leap
ahead.

Houthi drones powered by traditional methods like gas-burning engines
or lithium batteries can fly about 750 miles. But hydrogen fuel cells
would enable them to fly three times that distance and make it far
more difficult for acoustic and infrared sensors to detect them"

---

[Link](0119/2017/08/economic-complexity-hidalgo.html)

---

That is wrong advice. Both countries should produce both products
because that increases their econ diversity increasing internal
know-how which can benefit the design of a third product.

"While Adam Smith is regarded as the father of classical economics, the
science of economics would not have developed as it did without the
contributions of David Ricardo..

Famously, Ricardo illustrated comparative advantage and the benefits
of free trade in *Principles of Political Economy and Taxation (1817)*
using trade between England and Portugal as an example. He presented a
case where Portugal can produce both cloth and wine at lower costs
than England, thus giving Portugal what is referred to as the
'absolute advantage', However, in Portugal, the opportunity cost, that
is, the potential gains that are given up by selecting one alternative
over others, is less for the production of wine than cloth, while the
inverse is true in England. This means that Portugal has a comparative
advantage in the production of wine, while England has a comparative
advantage in the production of cloth. Ricardo reasoned that, if
Portugal were to specialize in the production of wine, while England
were to specialize in the production of cloth, both countries would
benefit"

---

"@osi@opensource.org

Open Source underpins almost 90% of the software used around the world
today, but very little of the money used for public procurement
reaches Open Source developers"

---

"[Philippe Migault, director of the European Centre for Strategic
Analysis (CEAS) said] 'The Poles and Italians do not want to deploy
troops to Ukraine [for a peacekeeping force], nor do the Hungarians or
Slovaks. As for the French army, it could only mobilise a few thousand
soldiers, much like the British.'..

The United States, meanwhile, has long made it clear that it has no
intention of sending troops to Ukraine, as stated by Defence Secretary
Pete Hegseth. President Donald Trump has also remained vague about
whether Washington would underwrite a Europe-led troop deployment,
which is likely to be stretched thin.

'It is difficult to envisage a force larger than 40,000 troops,' said
Elie Tenenbaum, director of the Security Studies Centre at the French
Institute of International Relations (Ifri)"

---

Arab News: "In the past five days, Moscow has broken through Kyiv’s
defensive lines, reclaiming dozens of square kilometers of
territory.. The result is that Kyiv may have lost one of its only
bargaining chips on swapping land with Russia"

---

CMC: "During a US-ROK joint military exercise, two ROK [South Korea]
Air Force fighter jets mistakenly dropped eight MK-82 bombs — each
weighing 227 kilograms — onto civilian homes. The bombing left at
least 29 people injured and destroyed several buildings. If such bombs
were to strike a densely populated area, the consequences would be
unimaginable. This botched "erroneous bombing" not only shocked people
at home and abroad but also compels reflection: Whose security do
these US-ROK joint military exercises actually protect?

Despite being labeled as 'defensive,' these military exercises have
long served as a catalyst for bloc confrontation and escalated
regional tensions. Under the guise of "safeguarding peace", these
exercises claim to counter the so-called "DPRK threat." Yet, far from
easing tensions on the peninsula, such muscle-flexing have only
exacerbated conflicts"

---

Lo and behold \#Velocity \#Fred

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/150/433/929/985/133/original/0f146c946a3b93f7.jpg)

---

Inequality would screw up velocity. All sorts of moneys would flow,
one-directionally to the rich, and stay there, simply invested in
assets, not good for velocity (nor the economy).

---

A simple way of computing velocity for US is dividing GDP by the money
stock, eg `M2`.

---

\#Velocity \#Money

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/gqtrNXdlraM?start=186&end=214)

---

The Jerusalem Post: "Armed Israeli settlers stole hundreds of sheep
from a Bedouin community in the Jordan Valley, local residents say"

---

PKK (seperatist TR Kurds) declaring unilateral cease fire is a
sweetner for the goobble gobble Anatolians so internally their pol
looks ok when they essentially accept the same Kurdish elements having
a state in NE Syria. A Syrian journo claims HTS leader Shara was
forced into the deal by the West. For PKK it made sense too, as stated
before, they now have a 100k strong army in NE Syria, they do not need
bunch of rugged guerillas running around on the mountains.

---

The Irish Times: "Hope for Syria as government and Kurds sign deal to
merge forces.. Kurdish community to get citizenship and language
rights denied under Assad regime"

---

The rumor is PKK leader Ocalan wants to be a spiritual leader of sorts
to NE Syria (Rojova), perhaps he is afraid "foreign elements"
encroaching on that territory and he wants to help them in some
way. The Israel proposed land bridge would connect into the area,
remember, he might also want to placate the Anatolians so they don't
feel the need to attack.

---

PKK was helped by Syria a lot in its early history. They were a
barganing chip of sorts against the TR's dam building. Obviously
the opression of Kurds by the state played a role too.

---

On a related event, TR Kurdish seperatist group PKK declared ceasefire
after ~50 years of fighting TR, they were being prodded to it by the
founder.

Their headquarters were in Northern Iraq.

One commentator said 'no big deal' from their persp in terms of
Kurdish resistance, 10k lay down arms, but there is now a 100k strong
army in NE Syria. PKK had made a play for that region after the civil
war started and managed to hold on. See timeline.

[[-]](../../0119/2017/12/timeline-syria-tr.html)

---

Al-monitor: "Syria’s Kurds win big as Sharaa [Jolani] shakes hands
with Kobane to save his own skin.. The surprise deal between Syria’s
interim president and the Kurdish leader marks a pivotal moment for
the country’s Kurdish minority and shifts the balance of power amid
escalating violence"

---

Reduced immigration, onshoring can help local wages, but even if they
doubled, it's not enough. Your puny salary can go from 30k to 60k, but
median house since mid-2000s went from 200k to 400k. Massive wealth
concentration caused that. That skewed distribution has to be corrected.

---

Percentage of gov discretionary spending

DOE 8%

DOD 45%

---

"You Are Witnessing the Death of American Capitalism" \#Jordan

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/gqtrNXdlraM?start=963&end=1042)

---

<img width='200' src='https://cyberplace.social/system/media_attachments/files/114/139/453/744/982/658/original/21029cd075913432.jpeg'/>

---

The problem with economics today is not "too much math", it is the
wrong type of math. Variables used, formulations are insufficient. The
answer isn't less math, it is the *right kind*.

---

Until inequality is addressed every president is a one-term
president. Trump certainly was 2016-2020. This is his second
first-term. JD 2028 will likely be in trouble.

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/142/836/757/518/258/original/7ffc125886c01a3e.jpg'/>

---

Switching to RealClearPolitics polling averages.

---

538 site is kaput. 

---

"@jmeyer@infosec.exchange

About this X DDoS campaign: I've seen reports of attribution to
Ukraine, and at least based on attack data at network level — I just
don't see it. (And I should note: attribution is hard, so I am
generally skeptical.)

Top contributors are 🇺🇸🇲🇽🇪🇸🇮🇹🇧🇷, and as with most botnets: very
geographically distributed.

Most of the source IPs intersect with #Eleven11bot as we started
seeing them on 26 February"

---

Dollar price against a basket. Price is coming down from a high to an
average. Nothing too crazy yet.

```python
u.get_yahoo_tickers(2020, ["DX-Y.NYB"]).plot(title='Dollar')
```

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/139/227/369/758/552/original/bb290077faf92e70.jpg'/>

---

With dollar usually it is meant against basket of currencies.

---

"The dollar" is a currency, it is crashing against what? We talk about
a currency always against another (or a few).

---

The dollar is "crashing"? The end is near?

---

Bloomberg: "Trump Team Is Pivoting to No Pain, No Gain as Economic Message"

---

GDP prediction not looking good

```python
u.get_fred(2023,'GDPNOW').plot(grid=True)
```

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/139/054/026/854/021/original/8260d0282c0671b3.jpg'/>

---

CNN: "Ontario premier threatens to ‘shut off electricity completely’
for US if trade war escalates"

---

Clintoncare = Obamacare

---

Action Network: "Big Medicine has driven us to a breaking
point. Doctors are pulled away from patient care –– sometimes from the
literal operating table –– by UnitedHealth Group and other insurance
conglomerates seeking new reasons to deny coverage. Patients with
asthma and other chronic illnesses routinely leave the pharmacy
counter empty-handed because middlemen play games with which
prescription drugs they will cover and at what cost -– with sometimes
fatal consequences. More than one third of Americans live in
healthcare deserts, largely because insatiable insurer greed has
driven independent medical practices and pharmacies out of
business. Employers and unions are being crushed by ever-increasing
premium costs, which further cut into workers’ wages. And all of us
live in fear that one illness could destroy our physical and financial
health...

[T]he U.S. healthcare system today is at the mercy of corporate
hospital systems, private equity investors, and vertically-integrated
monopolies and middlemen, who wield their market power to gouge
patients, workers, taxpayers, employers, independent pharmacists, and
unions..

We need a Glass-Steagall-style reform for health care, to eliminate
the structural conflicts of interest that drive up costs and lower
quality of care!

Sign on to our demand to Break Up Big Medicine!"

---

BFC = Bill Fucking Clinton

---

GFC was a missed opportunity, and the beginning of increased misery
for many in US. An FDR-like figure was needed, but you ended up with
BHO in line with a BFC ideology.

---

\#Marche #2008

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/A3hEcdtlBBg?start=463&end=547)

---

I am sure they were excellent speeches.. But are they worth a quarter
million dollars?

---

There were times the system could exploit the exubarence to trim off
the excess, eg 2008, but corrupt, bought-out US government did not
allow that excess money to disappear, the "system" (read: the rich)
were bailed out. The bubble continued. GFC was the perfect time where
the wealthy screwed themselves, gov could entrench that position, do a
much needed redistribution. But thankfully the wealthy and the corps
had their man inside, who bailed them out, now gets paid in kind via
"speeches".

---

If the wealth of richest grows faster than the growth of economy, the
rest of the money has to go after existing assets, raising their
price, which will make them more enticing to invest in, the cycle
continues. \#Stevenson 

---

Another downside is these "AI" tools require online connection to a
service, which may not always be available. Reduce unnecessary
connections, interactions. Be ready, code for intermittent
connectivity. This is how you survive.

---

\#CoPilot

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/1Se2zTlXDwY?start=0&end=120)

---

Turchin is the creator of [this formulation](../../2024/05/age-of-discord-math.html)
on political unrest.

Unchecked oligarchy causes inequlity, immiseration. But the errant
process contains seeds of its own destruction. Elite overproduction
will cause internal conflicts within the elite. At some point a good
number of elites eliminate themselves, and the cycle goes to a more
manageable state.

---

\#Turchin

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/eYxPXDPnyYg?start=118&end=418)

---

```python
u.get_yahoo_tickers(2025,['TSLA']).plot()
```

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/126/889/407/079/883/original/e4f227c6e799c121.jpg'/>

---

Middle East Eye: "Armed Israeli settlers attacked Palestinians in the
Masafer Yatta area, south of Hebron in the occupied West Bank,
injuring several people, Wafa news agency is reporting"

---

LA Times: "Syrians recount terror as renewed sectarian violence leaves
hundreds dead..The battles represent the deadliest attack on the new
government’s forces since Assad’s ouster in December, and a
blood-soaked reminder of the sectarian tensions that are the legacy of
the country’s 14-year civil war"

---

See there are "overlaps" between HTS front and Israel. That is because
Israel is encroaching on HTS, despite mini-pogroms done Alewites and
tough talk on the Kurds so far no action towards the southwestern
neighbor.

---

Color coded frontlines in \#Syria belonging to various groups. If
there are changes in the future, old front will be dashed, new ones
will be solid lines. 

[[-]](syrdata/map01.html)

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 03/04 - 03/10

[[-]](ukrdata/map11.html)

---

Syrian HTS has been provoking a backlash from the coastal Alevite
regions for a while.. I wonder if they wanted some kind of pushback to
which they could respond with bigger force leading to displacement,
expulsion of Alevites (Assad's minority) from their regions. These are
prime locations after all.

---

The expansion of NATO had nothing to do with strategy. If there was
any strategic brains behind the expansion the famous strategist George
Kennan would not be against it. See the [timeline](../../2025/03/nato-russia-timeline.html),
1997/02/05.

---

Anti-Russia sentiment of the "Third-Way" Democratic party is the
result of its decades long Republicanization. Thanks to Bill Clinton
this party not only adapted right-wing econ issues it also became
hawkish, perfectly aligning itself with the military industrial
private complex. During the 90s under the guise of "helping" Russia it
helped its plunder by its internationally connected oligarchs. They
started the expansion of NATO so more weapon sales could be made by
that same industry already experienced producing weapons compatible
with NATO specs. Dems eventually became NRINOs, Not Republican in Name
Only. Their anti-Russia sentiment is completely in line with them
being bootlickers of the industry and followers of right-wing
ideologies except a few bullshit culture war issues which are just
there for cosmetics.

---

"UA RU war started back in 2014". You could actually take the starting
point back to the 90s when US-led liberal order was wreaking havoc in
Russia, people were dying of despair and NATO was starting to expand.

---

Historically the Democratic Party has not been anti-Russia to this
degree. What changed?

---

If light is a wave not particle (See Robert Masse) and there can be no
spooky-action-at-a-distance, no entanglement, that means quantum
computation is a farce... This is in opposition to Barandes, whose
inherently stochastic approach to QM still allows for quantum
computation.

We will see who is correct based on whether quantum supremacy is
achieved (it still isn't, despite claims to the contrary) then
indivisible stochastic process explanation has a leg up. If on the
other hand faster-than-deterministic quantum computation is
impossible, then Masse's aether model has an advantage.

---

"Father of AI: AI Needs PHYSICS to EVOLVE". AI Is Still Stupid. \#Lecun 

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/RUnFgu8kH-4?start=316&end=403)

---

CA movie could do worse than Ant-Man... the last one that sucked.

---

```python
u.boxofficemojo("Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Domestic Opening': '$106,109,650',
 'Domestic': '$214,504,909',
 'International': '$261,566,271',
 'Worldwide Total': '$476,071,180',
 'Release Date': 'February 15, 2023'}
```

---

```python
u.boxofficemojo("Captain America Brave New World")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Domestic Opening': '$88,842,603',
 'Domestic': '$168,084,423',
 'International': '$178,401,643',
 'Worldwide Total': '$346,486,066',
 'Release Date': 'February 12, 2025'}
```

---

"@Casey@newsie.social

EU supports new ceramic-based catalyst to cut the cost of green hydrogen"

---

TNE: "A consortium of technology companies, led by Cummins, has
successfully developed a 6.7-litre hydrogen internal combustion engine
(H2-ICE) for medium-duty trucks and buses"

---

