# Week 31


"@beka_valentine@kolektiva.social

the whole west coast is under tsunami watch right now btw. Seattle and
Bay Area included

due to an 8.7 earthquake off Kamchatka. keep your phones on so you can
receive the warning signal if it comes"

---

Another massive eq

```python
eq = u.eq_at(51,154,1000,ago=4,minmag=8.0)
u.map_coords([51,154], eq, zoom=3, outfile="map11.html")
```

[[-]](map11.html)

---

"The Peace and Justice Project, launched by Jeremy Corbyn, is to hold
its first annual conference later this year"

---

*You* are not good enough for neoliberalism man.. If you were better,
grinding more, hustling more, neolib would have worked. It's *your*
fault.

---

Murphy: "If neoliberalism works, why is everything falling apart?
Neoliberalism has dominated economic thinking in the UK and across the
Anglosphere for over 40 years. But what do we have to show for it?
Rising poverty, broken housing markets, stagnant wages, failing
pensions, and growing inequality."

---

CarExpert: "EVs banned by global shipping company due to fire
hazard.. A major transport company has told customers it will no
longer allow EVs or PHEVs on its ships, citing fire risks from
lithium-ion batteries."

---

Interesting Engineering: "Saudi plans new hydrogen-to-ammonia facility
twice Neom’s plant size"

---

Russia's actions in Ukraine exploited NATO's weaknesses.. Ukraine
could not be taken into NATO bcz of such action's provacative side
effect. Russia could then attack it. And nearby NATO countries could
not defend Ukraine openly bcz that would bring other NATO nations in
to the war. NATO failed in its original mission. Now your org is a
farce, nothing but a club for arms manufacturers.

---

Pokrovsk's days are numbered.. 

\#Ukraine 07/24 - 07/30

[[-]](ukrdata/map29.html)

---

"Inside the Army's report on how Russia is fighting in Ukraine"

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/clvzFWa9VSE?start=701&end=832)

---

"Who’s Really Buying Up Britain?"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/dqGhVCuww7c?t=154)

---

"India’s first hydrogen powered coach successfully tested at ICF"

---

\#F4 Except the stuffy 60s decor, the movie was ok... The Woke reports
seem to be overblown. Was it good enough though to provide a good
seque into the Doom saga? We'll see

---

Some rivalry-focused encyclopedic dump:

[[-]](../../2025/07/corridors.html)

---

Freer access would be good, but in the current geo environment
everyone perceives things differently... Iran is a demonized actor by
the West, TR/AZ is their stooge, so them talking abt access is
perceived as an attack by the next-door neighbor. Sad.

---

"[06/15] Tehran has announced it successfully thwarted plans to
establish the Zangezur Corridor, a proposed land route linking
Azerbaijan to Turkey via Armenia’s Syunik province, which Iranian
officials view as a major geopolitical threat. In a televised
interview on June 10 with Tasnim News Agency, Ali Akbar Velayati, the
senior foreign policy adviser to Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, warned that the corridor was “a geopolitical maneuver
disguised as a transportation project”, intended to isolate Iran and
contain Russia by severing critical regional connections. Velayati
alleged that the corridor, if completed, would have blocked Iran’s
only direct land access to Europe through Armenia, undermining
Tehran’s strategic position in the South Caucasus."

---

AFAIK Iran is against that shit

---

Wiki: "The Zangezur corridor is a concept for a transport corridor
which, if implemented, would give Azerbaijan unimpeded access to
Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic without Armenian checkpoints via
Armenia's Syunik Province and, in a broad sense, for the geopolitical
corridor that would connect Turkey to [AZ]. The concept was not part
of the 2020 Nagorno-Karabakh ceasefire agreement but was introduced to
geopolitical lexicon later by Ilham Aliyev.. Armenia has steadily
objected to it, asserting that 'corridor logic' deviates from the
ceasefire statement, and that it is a form of propaganda"

---

Part of BRI goes through the Zanzegur Corridor.. How's that gonna work
cheech

---

(Competing?) Econ Corridors

```python
import json
corr = json.loads(open("corridors1.json").read())
colors = {"BRI1": "red", "BRI2": "red", "Zenzagur": "red", "IMEC":
          "blue", "IDR": "purple", "INTSC": "orange", "Traditional Route": "black"}
u.map_coords([25,46], {}, lines=corr, zoom=3, colors=colors, outfile="map10.html")
```

[[-]](map10.html)

---

Reuters: "Blackstone executive among dead in Manhattan shooting"

---

"Who Owns America (It's Not Who You Think)"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/uOG3MiFax7E?t=14)

---
