# Week 12

SCMP: "French deputy to US: ‘give us back the Statue of
Liberty’.. France should take back the Statue of Liberty because the
US no longer represents the values that led France to offer the
statue, a French Euro-deputy said on Sunday"

---

"'In everyone’s pocket right now is a computer far more powerful than
the one we flew on Voyager [launched in 1977]. I don’t mean your cell
phone — I mean the key fob that unlocks your car.'

— JPL scientist and member of the Voyager imaging team"

---

Went negative for the first time in the second term

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/176/399/434/356/770/original/bc4176e0bd17e94c.jpg'/>

---

It is sad to see admin rolling over and showing its belly though at
the first sight of trouble. We have an anti-establishment DNI chief
working for an anti-establishment president. But you can't work with
the deputy you choose? How anti-establishment are you exactly?

---

Davis: "A short and by no means exhaustive list of [mil misspending]
might include the RAH-66 Comanche armed reconnaissance helicopter
(launched in 1991, canceled after $6.9 billion), the XM2001 Crusader
mobile cannon (launched in 1995, canceled after 7 billion), and the
Future Combat Systems (launched in 2003, canceled after 20
billion). FCS in particular was notable for senior Army leaders’
efforts to ignore or suppress the results of simulations, tests and
analyses that highlighted problems and ultimately predicted failure...

After each of these failures, one might expect the Army and program
leaders to have suffered censure. Instead, the opposite seems
generally to have been the case. The leaders of failed programs and
other efforts received prestigious medals, promotion to higher ranks,
and plum follow-on jobs; others retired and went to work for defense
contractors, often with companies that had profited from the failed
acquisition effort"

---

The smear campaign against Col Daniel Davis originates from MIC. The
"Jew stuff" is an excuse, it gives trolls something to latch on
to. Just like the attacks on Corbyn had nothing to do with
anti-semitism, this one did not either. The Zionist lobby is a mere
appendage to the military-industrial complex. The tail does not wag
the dog.

---

*Careless People*: [Story from 2011] Most countries like Facebook.
Germany’s an outlier. The Germans disapprove of everything Facebook
stands for. It wasn’t very long ago that Germans lived with networks
of spies and informants in their country—the Stasi in East Germany and
the Gestapo before that. As a result, they have a fundamental
suspicion of anyone who wants to gather lots of personal
information—which of course is Facebook’s business model. Where others
see a website that’s good for wasting time, Germans see a
comprehensive surveillance tool that needs muscular oversight"

---

Got a copy. Streisand effect is a bitch

---

Lawfare eh. The book must be interesting. 

"@cdarwin@c.im

Meta won a legal victory this week against Sarah Wynn-Williams, a
former employee who recently published a memoir of her time at the
company titled *Careless People: A Cautionary Tale of Power, Greed,
and Lost Idealism*. An arbitrator ruled that the company has made a
valid argument that Wynn-Williams, who worked at Facebook (now Meta)
from 2011 to 2017, may have violated the non-disparagement agreement
she signed when leaving the company"

---

"Chihombori-Quao: USAID was ‘a wolf in sheep’s clothing’ in Africa"

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/5mFSRb5dUOM?start=133&end=429)

---

A Windows joke. The oft-repeated solution / half-joke is the result of
a crooked closed-source commercial architecture FYI. Their products are
mostly inferior.

---

"@advisorybriefs@mas.to

Have we tried turning the US off and turning it back on again?"

---

ProPublica: "What a Wrongful Death Lawsuit Reveals About America’s
Largest Oxygen Provider.. When an at-risk sleep apnea patient needed
his breathing machine replaced, Lincare, a $2.4 billion behemoth with
a decadeslong history of regulatory and legal problems, acted
slowly... Vernor died of complications from obstructive sleep apnea,
according to a coroner’s report"

---

Om Malik: "I once shared extensively on social media, but the
platforms have evolved. They now discourage sharing links that direct
users to external sites. In response, I’ve returned to a more
traditional approach. The Daily Blog features curated links to
articles I find compelling, along with relevant graphics and memorable
quotes. I hope to post with higher frequency there"

---

B1M: "The $17BN Plan to Make Iraq a Logistics Superpower..  The Al Faw
peninsula, a small and seemingly insignificant stretch of land
overlooking the Persian Gulf, is on track to become a pivotal hub in
global trade. The 20-kilometre strip is in fact Iraq's only access to
the sea and is central to the country's goal of becoming a major
player in global shipping.

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/175/811/451/704/969/original/b7ea94e34508c24a.jpg'/>

For over 150 years, the Suez Canal has been the primary route for
goods shipped between Europe, Asia, and other regions. However, due to
concerns about congestion and security in the Red Sea, experts are
looking into alternative routes. Iraq aims to offer a solution by
constructing a new maritime infrastructure project"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/172/912/999/231/956/original/ed0a0aa2090d4836.png'/>

---

Trump dropped a MOAB on Taliban, then made a deal with them for an
Afganistan pullout.

---

How is this different from Biden attacking them a gazillion times
before? 

BBC: "US launches wave of air strikes on Yemen's Houthis"

---

"He Audited the Pentagon. Here’s Where the Waste Really Is"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/UHnuoJNjf_c?t=94)

----

"@emsenn@kolektiva.social

Under U.S. law, organizing a general strike—especially across
industries—is straight-up illegal. The Taft-Hartley Act (1947) makes
it a felony to advocate for a mass strike across sectors. Courts ruled
long ago that calls for general strikes count as criminal
conspiracy—which is why labor leaders, radicals, and workers have been
crushed every time they tried to organize one.

Think about that: The state doesn’t just want you working, it wants
you to believe striking is an option—so they can catch you the second
you push too far. They let the words circulate, they let people dream
about it, but they’ve ensured that the mechanisms for a general strike
are dead on arrival"

---

Eurofighters are generation 4.5. Same for Rafale.

---

DW News: "Kill switch fears over US F-35 fighter jets in Europe"

---

Why to 32? Why not Zero?

"Canada is slashing its order of F-35 fighters from 88 to about 32."

---

Papa e-jagoff tells how junior grew up. Unsurprisingly the laminated
faced diva grew up filthy rich.

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/J5WyTw0oXDs?start=6393&end=6484)

---

Ars Technica: "From Mar 28, each Amazon Echo device will cease
processing audio on-device and instead upload all the audio it
captures to Amazon's cloud for processing, even if you have previously
opted out of cloud-based processing"

---

DD talks about all the wrong stuff, military misadventures,
misallocation of military spending.. MIC must have lobbied heavily
against.

---

Responsible Statecraft: "Earlier today the *Jewish Insider* magazine
ran a story saying that the White House tapped retired Lt. Col. Danny
Davis for Deputy Director of National Intelligence, working under the
newly confirmed DNI Tulsi Gabbard. It was a hit piece by a pro-Israel
platform that primarily focused on Davis's critical views — published
only in articles and on his popular podcast — on Gaza and Iran. Within
hours, he was informed there would be no job"

---

"@evanprodromou@threads.net

God grant me the confidence of Ben Stiller going into Apple TV+
headquarters to pitch a series about a corporation with a fanatical
quasi-religious devotion to its legendary founder" #Severance

---

"Is the CMB Actually Cosmic?" 

[[-]](https://youtu.be/540corkgovY?t=2573)

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 03/10 - 03/16

[[-]](ukrdata/map12.html)

---
