# Week 37

The Guardian: "More children around the world are obese than
underweight for the first time, according to a UN report that warns
ultra-processed junk food is overwhelming childhood diets.There are
188 million teenagers and school-age children with obesity – one in 10
– Unicef said, affecting health and development and bringing a risk of
life-threatening diseases."

---

Yea wrote a little geocoder, seems to work

```python
u.geoname("Astana","KZ")
```

```text
Out[1]: (51.18, 71.445833)
```

---

AQI 5 is the highest, there is some pollution in China

```python
u.pollution(*u.geoname("Chengde","CN"))
```

```text
Out[1]: 
({'aqi': 5},
 {'co': 368.75,
  'no': 0,
  'no2': 26,
  'o3': 44.6,
  'so2': 11.04,
  'pm2_5': 133.69,
  'pm10': 154.14,
  'nh3': 3.29})
```

---

FCW: "California to Launch First U.S. Hydrogen Passenger Train: ZEMU
Debuts Sept. 13"

---

"@MikeDunnAuthor@kolektiva.social

The weekend was a crazy leftist idea. In 1886 7 union members in
Wisconsin died fighting for the 5-day work week and the 8-hour work
day"

---

Gore Vidal: "There is only one party in the United States, the
Property Party and it has two right wings: Republican and Democrat."

---

The Guardian: "Scotland bans arms companies that supply IDF from
receiving financial aid"

---

The National is not f-ing around

<img width='340' src='https://media.mastodon.scot/media_attachments/files/115/179/437/158/520/829/original/162960d6b6c64913.png'/>

---

Al-Monitor: "Canada is evaluating ties with Israel after Qatar attack,
foreign minister says"

---

"@notjustbikes@notjustbikes.com

I've been following this 'mutual safety standards recognition'
stuff... This could be really, really bad. It would mean that US
vehicles, like those giant dangerous SUVs and pickup trucks, could be
freely imported into the EU in volume without having to pass EU
vehicle safety standards (like pedestrian safety)."

---

European Transport Safety Council: "The EU and the US have published a
Joint Statement on transatlantic trade and investment that says, with
respect to automobiles, the United States and the European Union
'intend to accept and provide mutual recognition to each other’s
standards'."

---

"When you store your knowledge and skills as parametric curves (as all
deep learning models [like LLMs] do), the only way you can generalize
is via interpolation on the curve. The problem is that interpolated
points *correlate* with the truth but have no *causal* link to the
truth. Hence hallucinations.

The fix is to start leveraging causal symbolic graphs as your
representation substrate (e.g. computer programs of the kind we write
as software engineers). The human-written software stack, with its
extremely high degree of reliability despite its massive complexity,
is proof of existence of exact truthiness propagation.

'Does a causal substrate necessarily need to be symbolic?' you
ask. Could it be based on parametric curves?

Yes it does, because in such a substrate the model is isomorphic to
the graph of causal factors of what you are modeling. And such a graph
is necessarily very sparse, i.e. it's a symbolic graph. It has
completely different properties from a continuous manifold...

Worth noting that the output artifacts of science -- the models it
produces -- are symbolic in nature. Most commonly expressed in
mathematical form, sometimes in code.

Science is a program synthesis process."

---

"@GeofCox@climatejustice.social

The political tactics version of the humble brag: Louise Haigh's
article on withdrawing from UK Labour's deputy leadership election is
really positioning for the (hopefully forthcoming) leadership
election.  Good for her."

---

Haigh, The Guardian: "I’m not running for Labour deputy leader. I want
the freedom to fight for an economic reset"

---

Willison: "Torsten Sløk released this interesting chart which appears
to show a slowdown in AI adoption rates among large (>250 empoloyees)
companies:

<img width='340' src='https://static.simonwillison.net/static/2025/apollo-ai-chart.jpg'/>

(My first thought on seeing that chart is that I hope it represents
the peak of inflated expectations leading into the trough of
dissillusionment in the Gartner Hype Cycle, since that means we might
be reaching the end of the initial hype phase and heading towards the
slope of enlightenment.)"

---

F24: "Bayrou government toppled in confidence vote, plunging France
into renewed crisis"

---

The Guardian: "Labour is dead, says Zarah Sultana as she calls for
patience over party launch.. Co-leader [w/ Corbyn] of nascent leftwing
party says more than 750,000 people have registered their interest"

---

ProPublica: "An executive order seeking to stop banks from
discriminating against customers could be undermined by the
administration’s gutting of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
which had been investigating the practice."

---

Al-Jazeera: "Spain has announced sweeping measures against Israel,
including a total arms embargo, with Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez
saying the move is aimed at 'stopping the genocide in Gaza' and
'supporting the Palestinian population'.

'There is a difference between defending your country and bombing
hospitals or starving innocent children,' Sanchez, one of the most
vocal critics of Israel’s military campaign in Gaza, said in a speech"

---

The Lever: "Amedisys, the country’s largest home health care company,
is urging Trump’s regulators to cut overtime pay for care workers."

---

NYT: "Deportation Fears Are Fueling Money Transfers to Latin
America.. Money transfers to Guatemala, Honduras and other nations
have increased in recent months, totaling billions of
dollars. Undocumented migrants in the United States say they are
sending money to relatives while they can."

---

DJT approval settled at around -6%.. The recent fall is still within trend..

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/115/172/536/950/716/970/original/77d38618b3a8ae73.jpg'/>

---

TDB: 'ICE Launches Chicago Operation Hours After Go Ahead From SCOTUS
for L.A. Raids"

---

FT: "Money flowing into green and blue hydrogen projects rises $35bn in the past year"

---

UA is doing its best especially in the past few weeks but it will all
be in vain.. 

\#UA \#RU 09/01 - 09/09

[[-]](ukrdata/map34.html)

---

Al-Monitor: "Over 1,800 actors, entertainers, and producers, including
some Hollywood stars, signed a pledge released on Monday to not work
with Israeli film institutions that they see as being complicit in the
abuse of Palestinians by Israel."

---

F24: "Gaza flotilla says boat struck by drone in Tunisian waters"

---

[Former Biden Aide] Ramamurti: "They will point to countries like
China and say, 'Why can they build high-speed rail or housing or solar
panels?'.. The reason is that the government there can direct private
industry to build things far beyond the point of profitability"

---

Politico: "[2023] With Apple’s iPhone 15, the EU wins the charger
war.. According to leaks ahead of the reveal, the iPhones are
expected to use Apple's first new charging technology in more than a
decade: They will feature a USB-C charging port, instead of Apple's
proprietary Lightning solution."

---

"One of the driving forces behind the USB-C mandate is the EU's quest
for sustainability and a circular economy. By EU estimates,
eliminating proprietary chargers reduces e-waste by approximately
11,000 metric tons annually."

---

If it wasnt for the EU *regulation*, there would not be widespread
USB-C adoption... Merchantile, ultra capitalist muckmuckers would have
slaved people to their bizarre methods that only worked for them.

---

Hardware upgrade complete... now have an ultra portable Linux, USB-C
for all things - power, headphones..

---

The private complex, surface state is pushing these people out in
front, always working the victimhood arbitrage and the Israel affinity
angle.. But executed at scale it looks like a conspiracy around a
certain minority. You are placing a big fat target on their backs,
when things go south and pitchforks come out, a lot of such people can
suffer en masse, **again**. Stop what you are doing right f-ing now.

---

Tyler Cohen, AIPacman, the torta bitch, the Abundance guy at NYT..
Why are they all Jew? 

---

Out-of-shape talentless bitch.. somehow always manages to stay
around.. Massive Zio money must be behind that...

New York Post: "Paramount in talks to buy Bari Weiss’ Free Press for
up to $200M, give her senior editorial role at CBS News"

---

TAC: "In China, as the assembled leaders of more than 20 nations
waited in the hall for the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization to begin.. Modi and.. Putin walked in holding hands. They
approached China’s President Xi Jinping and formed a tight, intimate
circle. The leaders talked and laughed as Modi joined hands with
Xi. For a Trump administration bent on driving wedges between these
leaders, this scene, more than any words that came out of the SCO
summit, was a shocking blow."

---

"Public overwhelmingly back wealth tax package to fix public services
and rebuild Britain..

- New polling shows significant support for package of wealth taxes
  and taxes on financial institutions right across political spectrum

- Public welcome wealth taxes as a vital means to fund public services
  and build a fairer Britain

- Implementing wealth taxes improves government’s standing with public
  and key voters

- TUC general secretary says voters want a “grown up” conversation
  about reforming tax system

- New analysis from the union body reveals tens of billions can be
  raised through a windfall tax on banks"

---

Informed Comment: "One year ago, the UN General Assembly demanded that
Israel must end its occupation of the Palestinian Territories within
twelve months... The General Assembly voted, by 124 votes to 14.. that
not only 'demanded' an end to the occupation within a year, but called
on all countries to refrain from trade involving Israeli settlements..

A year later, Israel has failed to comply with any of the demands of
the 124 states...most of the 124 countries that voted to demand an end
to the occupation have done very little to enforce those demands. If
they fail to enforce them now, they will only confirm Israel’s
presumption that its corrupt influence on U.S. politics still ensures
blanket impunity for systematic war crimes."

---

Great example of US mil executing orders for protecting corporate
interests

"The US Navy helped Venezuelan Vice President Juan Vicente Gómez seize
power in a coup."

---

US surface state ran Venezuella at one point.. 

"By the 1930s, under the presidency of Juan Vicente Gomez, three
foreign oil companies controlled about 98% of production [in
Venezuella]."

---

It was decided, top-down, the Gaza issue is "too divisive" and it was
obeyed.. It's like they are working for AIPAC.. Should we call this
guy David AIPacman?

---

"The Dark Money Behind “Progressive” Influencers (w/ Taylor Lorenz & John Ross)"

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/-qENvZBa-Ao?start=1143&end=1311)

---

Wired: "After the Democrats lost in November, they faced a
reckoning. It was clear that the party had failed to successfully
navigate the new media landscape...  Now, Democrats hope that the
secretive Chorus Creator Incubator Program, funded by a powerful
liberal dark money group called The Sixteen Thirty Fund, might tip the
scales. The program kicked off last month, and creators involved were
told by Chorus that over 90 influencers were set to take
part. Creators told WIRED that the contract stipulated they’d be
kicked out and essentially cut off financially if they even so much as
acknowledged that they were part of the program. Some creators also
raised concerns about a slew of restrictive clauses in the
contract.. Influencers included in communication about the program,
and in some cases an onboarding session for those receiving payments
from The Sixteen Thirty Fund, include Olivia Julianna.. Loren
Piretra.. Barrett Adair.. David Pakman.. Leigh McGowan, and dozens of
others"

[[-]](https://www.wired.com/story/dark-money-group-secret-funding-democrat-influencers/)

---

Both of those guys were pro-TR types in Syria.. There is a message
here to "Turkey". Is US trying to warn against a potential attack on
Kurds?

"[9/4, US] Drone attack targets leaders in Turkistan Party, HTS on
Aleppo Road... the individuals targeted in the drone strike were Abu
Faruq al-Uyghuri, a member of the Turkistan Islamic Party, and Abu
Salamah, a senior commander in Hay’at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS).

---

Free, Open Source, Community Driven

The Verge: "Wikipedia is the largest compendium of human knowledge
ever assembled, with more than 7 million articles in its English
version, the largest and most developed of 343 language
projects. Started nearly 25 years ago, the site was long mocked as a
byword for the unreliability of information on the internet, yet today
it is, without exaggeration, the digital world’s factual
foundation. It’s what Google puts at the top of search results
otherwise awash in ads and spam, what social platforms cite when they
deign to correct conspiracy theories, and what AI companies scrape in
their ongoing quest to get their models to stop regurgitating
info-slurry — and consult with such frequency that they are straining
the encyclopedia’s servers. Each day, it’s where approximately 70
million people turn for reliable information on everything from
particle physics to rare Scottish sheep to the Erfurt latrine disaster
of 1184, a testament both to Wikipedia’s success and to the total
degradation of the rest of the internet as an information resource."

---

Politico: "A memo obtained.. cautioned Democrats about relying solely
on the emergent school of thought [Abundance], which criticizes overly
bureaucratic regulations for slowing progress on housing production
needed to drive down costs and infrastructure projects...

Progressives, led by Rep. Greg Casar.. argu[ed] that the party must
rebuild its relationship with working-class voters by vilifying
billionaires and corporate power. That's more in line with what the
memo argued will reach voters, as 'majorities of Democrats and
independents and two in five Republicans believe the outsized power of
billionaires and corporations in our government is a bigger problem
than red tape and bureaucracy'...

It described affordability as voters' primary concern, and posited
they 'see Abundance-style policy solutions as less responsive' to that
problem."

---

Little Marco, became SecState and now acting NSA, supporting the usual
Zionist scum... MIC has him.

---

Why are you troubled Marco Rubenstein..? 

MSN: "The U.S. State Department told CNBC on Thursday that it was
'very troubled' by Norway's $2 trillion wealth fund selling its stake
in New York-listed Caterpillar... Fund management said last week that
the sovereign wealth fund would exit Caterpillar and several Israeli
banks over concerns about ties to the conflict in the Gaza Strip."

---

Arab News: "One of the European Union's most senior officials on
Thursday called the war in Gaza a 'genocide,' ramping up criticism of
Israel and slamming the 27-nation bloc for failing to act to stop
it. 'The genocide in Gaza exposes Europe's failure to act and speak
with one voice,' European Commission vice president Teresa Ribera said
during a speech in Paris"

---

"@ben@werd.social

Just a thought, but if we're worried about competing with China, we
might want to educate the population, invest in public health, create
great infrastructure, build low-cost, high-speed transit, and provide
the underlying conditions for people to do great, creative,
well-informed work nationwide."

---

