# Week 6

```python
u.baci_top_product("USA","Mexico")
```

```text
$ 39,615,432,947.0
Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals, not crude:
preparations n.e.c. containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils
or oils from bituminous minerals: these being the basic constituents
of the preparations: waste oils
```

---

```python
u.baci_top_product("Mexico","USA")
```

```text
$ 33,298,367,944.0
Units of automatic data processing machines: processing units other
than those of item no. 8471.41 or 8471.49, whether or not containing
in the same housing one or two of the following types of unit: storage
units, input units or output units
```

---

```python
u.baci_top_product("USA","Canada")
```

```text
$ 15,815,563,148.0
Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals, not crude:
preparations n.e.c. containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils
or oils from bituminous minerals: these being the basic constituents
of the preparations: waste oils
```

---

```python
u.baci_top_product("Canada","USA")
```

```text
$ 117,401,863,409.0
Oils: petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude
```
---

"Tata Steel has become the first steel company in India to demonstrate
comprehensive capabilities in developing pipes for hydrogen
transportation. This is stated in a press release from the steelmaker.

As noted, the company has successfully developed hydrogen-compatible
API X65 steel pipes. They were manufactured at Tata Steelâ€™s plant in
Khopoli using steel produced at the Kalinganagar facility.

The qualification tests were conducted at RINA-CSM (Italy), a leading
center for approving hydrogen-related tests and characteristics. The
new API X65 pipes can be used to transport 100% pure hydrogen gas at
high pressure (100 bar)"

---

Don't get me started on *Dunkirk*.

---

Oscars, shmoscars.. No one will remember that shit in a few decades.
What people will remember if the movie was any good. *Fight Club* is a
classic. Is anything this guy ever did approach that level of quality,
message, execution? Nolan IMO serves shitlibs. He is a shitlib's
shitlib. The kind of jagoff people in certain circles like to like,
feel obligated to like.

---

*Oppenheimer* was boring. Except a few conversations between Murphy
and Damon, there was no life in it. Is this how C. Nolan plans to
cement his position as a grand director? Make stuff boring, package
obfuscation as smart (Tenet), and/or rely on extended dramatic music
sequences that ramble on the same high exceeding its welcome but
somehow comes across as a refined movie technique (Inception). It
won't work. Except a few fools in the Academy his position in movie
history is far from cemented. He is on shaky ground.

---

China is not. China is in its "consolidation" phase, says PT

---

Peter Turchin's approach could provide another example.. He formulated
crisis, political instability in terms of inequality, and a few other
parameters. According to him, yes, US is in crisis mode right now, it
has been for a while.

[[-]](./2024/05/age-of-discord-math.html)

---

If inequality is added to a grand model of economics, it could be as
an extension of the model below, using macro variables, analyzing
top-down.

[[-]](./0119/2018/02/keen_math.html)

---

Zelensky can demand all RU occupied regions back until he is blue in
the face. He has no capability to achieve that. It's like, while the
Red Army rolling into Berlin Hitler says "I demand to take
Moscow". Just because he says that, should a peace agreement be the
middle point between his demand and Russia's, and the Red Army pulls
back to middle point between Moscow and Berlin? This is non-sense.

---

Negotiations are about finding middle point of what both sides are
*capable* to do, not what they *say* they want to do. Russia is
capable to prolong the war, take eastern Ukraine, take Odesa, and nuke
Ukraine. Ukraine is able to put up some defense, delay Russia, play
spoiler in some areas. The middle of both these capabilities is giving
Russia the four regions it wants plus Crimea, and keep Ukraine out of
NATO. Simple.

---

