# Week 13

Looking at the status of Gaza ceasefire, why would Russia be hopeful
from a 30 day ceasefire in Ukraine?

---

I bet tigga will be axed to take some refugs too. Oh boi

---

Really? 500k here 500k there soon u r talking total ethnic cleansing.. 

The Times of Israel: "Egypt willing to temporarily relocate half a
million Gazans to Sinai"

---

"Why Can't AI Make Its Own Discoveries? — With Yann LeCun"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/qvNCVYkHKfg)

---

IE: "World’s first portable hydrogen cracker can produce 1,100 pounds
fuel per day.. Hy-5’s flexibility using ammonia, which is already
transported in bulk, is one of its biggest benefits"

---

CDOs are financial instruments that pooled multiple debt obligations
(cash streams) whereby an investor (the rich) could offer loan money
by simply purchasing the CDO and collect interest on that loan... But
due to inequality massive amount of wealthy people's money rushed into
these instruments, raising the price of the underlying asset, housing
in this case, for regular people. Regulating the markets are a good
fix of course (regulation is always good), but the better fix is
reducing the wealth of the ultra-rich so their excessive money does
not cause price bubbles in products the middle class needs.

---

Paper: "Explaining the U.S. Housing Bubble: are CDOs to Blame?..I
argue that a credit supply [increase].. originating in the CDO market
in 2004, was a significant causal factor in the unsustainability of
the credit driven housing boom of the early 2000’s. This paper sheds
light on when credit booms become bubbles and why... My results
suggest that the credit fueled housing price growth prior to 2004 may
have been the result of sustainable innovations in meeting the needs
of credit constrained borrowers. I argue that the CDO market was the
critical link along the credit chain both in terms of its
unsustainability as well as the causal role it played in effecting
home price appreciation"

[[-]](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2758322)

---

North Shore News: "Federal government gives $49M for North Vancouver
hydrogen facility.. The new hydrogen industry will create good jobs
and environmental sustainability, says Minister of Natural Resources..
The federal government is pitching a wad of cash to help build a new
hydrogen facility on the North Shore waterfront, with the eventual
goal of filling fleets of heavy duty trucks with the alternative
fuel...  The project to build B.C.’s largest clean hydrogen production
facility is already underway, and will involve capturing the waste
product of a neighbouring sodium chlorate plant that HTEC bought in
2022"

---

Interesting Engineering: "France hits hydrogen jackpot: World’s
largest reserve valued $92 billion found... This discovery positions
France to lead the charge in hydrogen production, boosting local
economies"

---

Space.com: "[2023] Expansion of universe could be a mirage, new study
suggests"

---

TR commentariat is busy theorizing.. Apparently there was a Trump call
a few days earlier, now he is blamed for giving the greenlight.

---

There are protests in Anatolia against Istanbul mayor's
arrest. Everyone rightly speculates he is arrested to stop him from
running for prez three years later. According to polls the incumbent
would likely lose.

---

Fools think by elevating meritocracy to new heights, they are helping
general populace. But talent on specific topics, at the level that can
earn serious money appears only in a few, so if we tie wealth
accumulation to that, we are not broadening its reach. We might as
well ask people to dig for gold, or give only red haired, or
left-handed people a lot of money.

---

The Guardian: "The mainstream of the Democratic party has long accused
progressives.. of a kind of moral vanity, a willingness to sacrifice
effective governance or policy gains for the sake of personal
purity. The shoe is now on the other foot: it is the mainstream
Democratic leadership – Schumer and his allies – who now favor decorum
over the public interest, personal dignity over principle, a vain hope
for a return to the politics of the past over their responsibility to
engage with the realities of the present. It is the centrist
Democrats, not the progressives, who are living in a delusion, and who
are selling out the country in order to maintain it"

---

Politico: "We Dug Into the Polls. Democrats in Congress Should Be Very
Afraid...  The Democratic base’s disillusionment runs so deep that
it’s eerily reminiscent of Republican grassroots sentiment in the
period leading up to Donald Trump’s takeover of the Republican
Party.. The numbers are clear: No longer satisfied with the status quo
in their party, Democrats are on the verge of a Tea Party-style,
intra-party revolt"

---

RSF is getting its ass kicked... Entire swaths of the east are gone.

---

\#SAF \#RSF \#Sudan \#Frontline 01/31 - 03/22

[[-]](sdndata/map02.html)

---

DW: "Sudan's military take control of presidential palace"

---

AP: "NYC will eventually have to abandon part of its water supply if
it keeps getting saltier"

---

Rubber: meet road.

TDB: "Republicans Mount Big Pushback Against Trump Over Changes to
NATO Command.. Top Republican lawmakers issued their strongest warning
yet to the Trump administration over reports that the Pentagon is
considering massive changes to a NATO command in a bid to cut costs."

---

Firstpost: "Canada in advanced talks to join EU’s military industry
plan as Trump tests Nato allies.. Canada's move to align with the EU's
defence initiative marks a significant recalibration of its military
strategy amid growing uncertainties in US relations"

---

Hewlett Packard is on there.. HP had two people killed recently for
being a nuisance for them, and they did that *on the same day*. Snap,
just like that. See the cases of Mike Lynch and Stephen Chamberlain.

---

Companies of the Military-Industrial Complex. That is a lot of
companies.

[[-]](https://www.militaryindustrialcomplex.com/companies.php)

---

Neither of the two most likely suspects, Cuba and LBJ had anything to
do with the depths of the state. In LBJ's case he was part of the
surface state, Texas oilman in conjunction with Johnson (who was the
VP at the time) orchestrated the assasination via their personal,
commercial connections outside of government.

---

Al-Jazeera: "New files released on Tuesday don’t shed new light on
Kennedy’s assassination. But they reveal details about CIA plots...
Tuesday’s document dump did not support the validity of any conclusion
other than the [Warren] commission’s findings, according to experts
who spoke to Al Jazeera"

---

It probably doesn't take much to set them on fire, lithium ion
batteries are highly flammable, they even spontaneously combust by
themselves. 

---

Teslas on fire, due to arson as a protest against douche.

<img width='340' src='https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/avcibq187dt7ow9jqsrk5/tesla_fire1.gif?rlkey=ah6xp0zriuveh83pca6x7ni5f&st=p4tq5sbz&raw=1'/>

---

PDF shows in browser, does not show on standalone viewer. Ghostscript
`-dPDFSETTINGS=/prepress -sDEVICE=pdfwrite` to the rescue. Having to
fix a lot of PDF lately.. Whassup?

---

Electrive: "Farizon mass-produces first units of its H2 truck in
China.. The first 100 units of Farizon's Xinghan G 200kW hydrogen fuel
cell heavy-duty truck have rolled off the production line in China. It
is thus the first series-produced H2 truck in the country"

---

F24: "Riots break out.. after Erdogan rival detained.. Riots broke out
at the campus of Ankara's Middle East Technical University as students
protested against the detention of Istanbul mayor Ekrem Imamoglu"

---

Politico: "It’s not the first time California’s governor has sought to
forge inroads in redder parts of the country... David Kochel, the
longtime Iowa Republican strategist, said 'the operative class is
definitely watching him because he’s doing something very different.'
When asked if Newsom could give Republicans problems, Steve Bannon,
the MAGA flamethrower who appeared recently on Newsom’s show, said
simply, 'Hell, yes.'"

---

