# Week 23


Arab News: "A law allowing nuclear reactors to operate beyond 60 years
took effect in Japan on Friday, as the government turns back to atomic
energy 14 years after the Fukushima catastrophe."

---

Politico: "Republicans Prepare to Push Trump on Putin.. As the Russian
president slow-walks peace talks, GOP leaders hope to pressure their
own president into taking a tougher stance."

---

A good new theory should not "explain everything" - dark matter, dark
energy, black holes, the double slit experiment, the big
bang... No. It should have the parsimony, the representative clarity
to *rule out* some things. It should be able to say "the double-slit
experiment is a misunderstood, ill-defined experiment", or "black
holes do not exist". If you are explaining everything you are a slave
to the latest state of science which we all know is not very good. In
data analysis terms we must veer away from "overfitting". I could draw
a "curve" that connects all points in my dataset, but that would not
be a representative curve of my dataset, just bunch of jagged
lines. Theory must be simple (but no simpler). As simple as possible
by its very nature means some existing precepts will be ruled out
(just as data analysis does for outliers).

---

We shouldn't "quantize gravity" or "gravitize the quantum". Both of
these theories are incomplete and cannot explain the other. We need to
go deeper (to the aether).

---

Supersymmetry / Grand Unified Theory fails, String Theory fails. 

---

Voit: "[2018] The ACME II experiment is reporting today a new, nearly
order of magnitude better, limit on the electric dipole moment of the
electron:.. Today’s result pretty much completely rules out generic
versions for both the most popular SUSY models still standing (Split
SUSY), as well as the most popular class of GUTs. This provides
another nail in the coffin of the SUSY-GUT paradigm which has
dominated expectations for physics beyond the Standard Model over the
past forty years."

[[-]](https://www.math.columbia.edu/~woit/wordpress/?li=1&paged=34)

---

The unraveling of e-douche started with his failure in Michigan, spent
millions for the SC judge election, but failed - the other candidate
won an overwhelming victory. At that point e-douche's plastic
charisma, second-rate mystique became shattered. After such a loss all
you have is obnoxious acts, without the perceived savantness to cover
it up. He was found out. That is when his long way down in the Trump
world began.

---

TAC: "Trump Might Not Be Able to Skirt Iran’s Red Line.. Tehran has
made clear their nation has a right to enrich uranium at low levels"

---

TAC: "U.S. Trade Deficit Plunges as Tariffs Take Effect.. State of the
Union: It was the largest such decline on record."

---

Chollet: " Engineering is rarely the application of a well-understood
theory. Most of the time it's a two-way dialogue, forcing theory to
become more robust, more nuanced, or even to be discarded and
rebuilt. But sometimes there's no theory at all, just a bag of poorly
understood tricks guessed from past experiments."

---

Peter Voit: "Sean Carroll has a new paper out defending the Multiverse
and attacking the naive Popperazi [followers of Popper], entitled
*Beyond Falsifiability: Normal Science in a Multiverse*... Much of the
problem with the paper and blog post is that Carroll is.. ignoring the
serious arguments about the problems with multiverse research"

---

I'd like to remind people Carroll wants to upend the scientific method
itself because his own stupid little theory doesn't work, i.e. not
scientific

---

What he doesn't tell you is what did NOT happen later.. Superstring
Theory predicted SUSY which wasn't borne out by the experiments.  The
current status of String Theory is it is a nice mathematical exercise,
but a dead-end. No wonder it attracted people like Witten, who is a
mathematician himself, bcz the field offered some adventerous avenues
that, sadly, did not lead to anything.

Sean Caroll \#PiersUncensored: "In this quantum mechanical
realm.. gravity doesn't fit. It was recognized pretty quickly that
there was a good reason why gravity doesn't fit.. gravity interacts
with everything. Gravity interacts with photons, with electrons, with
quarks, with whatever, and so when you do this scattering experiment,
you do the calculation, everything in the universe contributes to the
infinitely big answer that you don't want to get... [Y]ou would
need.. some kind of miraculous cancellation between all the different
contributions from all the different fields, and people looked at that
and said 'we have no idea how to make that happen let's not worry
about quantum gravity.'

And then String Theory comes along and again it wasn't even trying to
be a theory of gravity, but when they do this calculation, the
miraculous cancellation happens... You get a finite answer
to.. scatter[ing of] different particles off of each other. That is
right now the only theory in which that miraculous [cancellation]
actually works... This was finally put together as a sort of sensible
viable theory in the mid 1980s, it was a calculation by John Schwarz
and Michael Green that showed that.. You can look up the magazines at
the time, *Physics Today* ran an article saying anomaly cancellation
launches 'Superstring Bandwagon'"

---

\#Freeman \#Lottaz

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/9t2zZBKOmcU?start=106&end=664)

---

AP: "The \#US on Wednesday vetoed a \#UNSC resolution demanding an
immediate & permanent #ceasefire in \#Gaza because it was not linked
to the release of #hostages, saying it would embolden \#Hamas
militants.

All 14 other members of the council voted in favor of the resolution,
which described the #humanitarian situation in Gaza as “catastrophic”
& called on \#Israel to lift all restrictions on the delivery of #aid
to the 2.1M \#Palestinians in the territory"

---

SDDP: "Let's try to think about magnetism. Classically we draw
magnetic field lines, and a key thing is they always loop back on
themselves. They form closed loops, unlike electric fields which start
and end on charges. So the hypothesis takes that property of closed
loops, and gives it a physical basis. It's not just a mathematical
description anymore. The field lines, they're not just lines on paper,
they're actual things, structures in this ether.

Imagine one of these plank mass dipoles, spinning, rotating - that
rotation according to the hypothesis literally stirs the super fluid
Planck ether around it, creating a tiny whirlpool a vortex... The axis
of that spin.. it is rotating around that, determines what we perceive
as the direction of the magnetic field. The vortex itself is the
closed loop of magnetic flux, The magnetic field isn't just some
invisible force field, it's an actual pattern of flow a vertical
filament within the ether itself.  So magnetism fundamentally wouldn't
be caused by moving electric charges, like we usually learn, but by
these tiny spinning dipoles creating whirlpools in the ether"

---

If a certain medium can reveal magnetic field lines, than it is
logical to assume EM fields themselves are also formed / travel in a
certain medium.

---

Science Deep Dive Podcast: "[T]he source material mentioned [in the
Winterberg aether hypothesis thread is] a significant 2024 study
published in *Nature Physics* experimenting with something called a
Bose Einstein condensate. A BEC.. is a state of matter that behaves
like a super fluid in the lab at ultra cold temperatures.. A lab-based
super fluid..  They created quantum vortices in this super fluid, and
they observed that the velocity fields around these vortices, the way
the fluid was flowing, exactly mimicked electromagnetic field
behaviors specifically the flow patterns were solenoidal, meaning the
flow lines naturally form those closed loops just like magnetic field
lines do"

---

It makes sense, agro norms (and their social consequences), certain
cultural aspects are certainly there... Sadly Anatolians fashioned
themselves a bizarre identity that muddled much of their past, but
hopefully the delusion will soon go away.

---

According to IM the West emerged from Hilly Flanks, so Anatolia today
must be included in the definition of the West.
 
Ian Morris: "Following what I hope is common sense, throughout this
book I use the expression 'the West' to describe all the societies
that have descended from this westernmost (and earliest) of the
Eurasian cores. The West long ago expanded from the original core in
southwest Asia to encompass the Mediterranean Basin and Europe, and in
the last few centuries the Americas and Australasia too. As I hope
will become clear, defining 'the West' like this (rather than picking
on some supposedly uniquely 'Western' values such as freedom,
rationality, or tolerance, and then arguing about where these values
came from and which parts of the world have them) has major
consequences for understanding the world we live in"

---

Arab News: "Macron to visit Meloni after rivalry creates tension on
Ukraine, trade.. Meloni was criticized in Italy for not traveling to
Kyiv with Macron and the German, British and Polish leaders on May 10
and then for missing a call with Trump and Ukrainian President
Volodymyr Zelensky at a summit in Albania a few days later. After
Meloni explained her absence by saying the meetings were about sending
troops to Ukraine, her government was furious that Macron said
publicly that the meetings were about a ceasefire and seemed to equate
her justification with 'Russian disinformation'"

---

Arab News: "Spain cancels contract for missiles built by Israeli
subsidiary"

---

New theory goes Dr Doom snatches dead body of Stark after *Endgame*
death. When he comes back of course he looks like him, fools ppl into
thinking he is Stark. This is how he is truly VVD but looks like
TS. Interesting theory

---

Tensions might be high over there, the trade war, and most critical,
Xi's plan to invade Taiwan could create some rifts.

---

Power struggle within CCP? Xi in trouble?

---

There are different types of aether theories.. The core idea was
abandoned prematurely during 20s, bcz certain aspects of it did not
jive with GR. But since GR along with QM themselves are now stuck in
the mud along with much of fundamental physics, it is time to dust off
old books and reincarnate the idea. I am particularly interested in
Robert Masse's version.

---

Paper: "The Planck aether hypothesis (F. Winterberg..) assumes that
space is densely filled with positive and negative Planck mass
particles, locally interacting over a Planck length with the Planck
force. Making this hypothesis, quantum mechanics and Lorentz
invariance can be derived as low energy approximations, with
Einstein's gravitational and Maxwell's electromagnetic waves explained
as the symmetric and antisymmetric modes of a vortex lattice. Charge
is explained by the zero point fluctuations of Planck mass particles
bound in vortex filaments. Dirac spinors are gravitationally bound
positive-negative mass excitonic quasiparticles, with two particle
families, and with masses very small compared to the Planck mass. The
theory is in line with the demand that nature is finitistic, working
with discrete elements in a kind of non-Archimedean geometry"

[[-]](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/234370368_The_Planck_Aether_Hypothesis)

---

Apparently somebody went "viral" with a series of posts on
Winterberg's Aether hypothesis.. Good ideas keep coming back...

---

The simplest method, the best. Little steaming, salt and olive oil.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/j5S_Q10jUm4?t=51)

---

"I don't like brocoli!" You first experience with it probably wasn't
good, it wasn't properly prepared. 

---

"@Szescstopni@circumstances.run

A robot [trying](https://asset.circumstances.run/media_attachments/files/114/610/965/197/101/216/small/51f28b13ede9c09e.jpg)
to fuck up a rural broadband installation. Fortunately the stop button
worked, though this might not work in the future as the Supreme Court
moves to repeal the Three Laws of Robotics and replace them with one –
'A robot must never cause harm to the stockholders of its
manufacturer's company'"

---

Overall the Clintonesque ideology (of which Obama was an ardent
follower) is surely dying. It never had much electoral success anyway,
getting elected after three R terms acting like a Rep, or after in
2008 after two W terms were not particularly bright spots in the
party's history. Especially for 2008 a sock puppet could have been
elected whoever happened to be Democratic nominee.

---

NBC News: "Obama world loses its shine in a changing, hurting
Democratic Party.. Obama White House and campaign alumni have been
setting the course of the Democratic Party for years. After 2024, more
Democrats want to see that change"

---

Ledbetter, *Unwarrented Influence*: "One of the more troubling
accusations surrounding the military-industrial complex is that
weapons manufacturers influence, or even set, American foreign policy
priorities for their own gain. Such accusations, if true, would
certainly count as 'unwarranted influence.' Particularly in recent
decades, critics have expanded the MIC’s scope beyond the
U.S. military to incorporate the arms that American companies sell
abroad... the issue is a reasonable extension of the term
'military-industrial complex' for two reasons. First, the largest
companies selling overseas are the same that contract with the
Pentagon—Boeing, General Dynamics, Grumman Northrop, Lockheed Martin,
and Raytheon, among others. Second, generally speaking, the export of
any significant amount of weapons requires the approval of the United
States government, and to get this approval, manufacturers need to
exercise influence through channels similar to those they use in their
sales to the Pentagon.

In 1968, Congress passed the Foreign Military Sales Act, which moved
the transfer of arms abroad from the realm of foreign aid to the realm
of commerce.. As a result, arms sales abroad grew rapidly, from under
$2 billion a year before the formation of the agency to 5 billion in
1973 and 15 billion in 1975. This happy windfall for military
contractors just happened to coincide with the slowdown in Pentagon
procurement as the U.S.  involvement in Vietnam began to wind down.

In the decades that followed, the United States has become by far the
largest arms merchant in the world. Policy analyst William Hartung has
documented this monumental rise as well as the troubling ways in which
America’s foreign policy overlaps with, and is highly influenced by,
the overseas agendas of arms manufacturers"

---

Bus News: "A new alliance of more than 20 energy-intensive UK-based
businesses recently met with MPs to present plans for a major new
hydrogen project that, if approved, is expected to inject 6.5 billion
GBP into the country’s economy and create more than 24,000 jobs.. The
project, dubbed HySpeed, includes a number of firms from FTSE100 and
SMEs, including Wrightbus, Centrica, Heidelberg, ITM Power, JCB and
National Gas, and has been created to answer the Government’s request
to transition the UK to a clean energy superpower position."

---

"@munin@infosec.exchange

You -cannot- trust llm-tainted information.

Hallucination is an intrinsic part of how they work at their base and
there is no possible way to ameliorate this.

No 'fact' sourced from llm-tainted content is reliable. 

Pay a human to find a real reference if you want reliable information. 

If you don't want reliable information, then make it up yourself."

---

The Edge Malaysia: "BYD shares extend losses as price cuts throw
spotlight on sales"

---

"@jmaris@eupolicy.social

An extremely welcome initiative from the 🇪🇺  #eu:

🔋Phone Batteries must retain 80% capacity after 800 cycles.

📱Phone makers must provide 5 years of updates,

🪛 are banned from discriminating against repair shops,

🔧 and must provide parts for 7 years after EOL"

---

<img width='340' src='https://marchtogaza.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/marchtogaza-logo1-300x300.jpg'/>

"Walking together, opening roads to life for Gaza"

[[-]](https://marchtogaza.net/)

---

"@EndIsraeliApartheid@mastodon.social

Activist Greta Thunberg says silence is more dangerous than sailing to
Gaza, as she boarded a vessel that will try to break the Israeli
blockade of Gaza.

The Gaza Freedom Flotilla had to abandon its last attempt on May 2
when it was bombed.

The FFC said in a statement that the vessel was the target of two
drone strikes while on the preparatory stages"

---

The Guardian: "A human rights review of EU-Israel ties is under
way. The results will be significant for both the war and Europe’s
reputation"

---

\#Ukraine \#Russia 05/25 - 06/02

[[-]](ukrdata/map22.html)

---

Fortune: "Chinese EV stocks tumble after BYD slashes prices as much as
34%"

---

MIC influence and its control on USG is not a conspiracy theory. When
HP (a company in the lower rungs of the hierarchy btw) has two people
killed that were a nuisance to it in the same day, they are *letting
you know* they are the ones who did it. They are sticking it in your
eye. Yelling it in your ear with a megaphone. They want it to be
known, bcz they want to be seen and feared. They have the power.

---

Ledbetter, *Unwarrented Influence*: "The Iraq war has highlighted
issues of military accountability, and, as in previous wars, the
perception that the military acts with impunity has fed a sense of an
MIC exercising unwarranted influence. The conduct of U.S. troops and
contractors in Iraq— from administration-approved torture to instances
of rape and murder of civilians—are deeply disturbing, and while in
many cases individuals have been convicted, the frequency of abuse
suggests systemic flaws in the conduct of the war and in the military
culture. Such abuses are common during wartime.. but the concerns have
been heightened by the unprecedented number of private contractors,
whose growing influence in military and foreign policy circles has
caused some to label them “the fourth branch of government"

---

\#Sudan 04/15 - 06/01

[[-]](mbl/2025/sdndata/map04.html)

---
