# Week 32

"How the military-industrial complex captured US democracy" \#AlJazeera

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/cVYTb85_dZw?start=270&end=1275)

---

Technically it's not "FED printing money" that creates debt.. Printed
money in circulation is at about [22 trillion](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/M2SL).
All outstanding debt denominated in dollars is at [102 trillion](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/BOGZ1FL894104005A).
How can there be more money sloshing around the system than printed money?
Let's not forget private banks can create money out of thin air while
lending. They are not bound by fractional requirements either, not anymore.

---

Ran an idea by an LLM, a modified Djikstra shortest-path of sorts,
where the algorithm would go backwards from a node and do this a few
levels back. LLM keeps telling me it would be "very inefficient" to do
that. Setting aside the fact that I could create a specialized
structure to make that fast (via an index), even sparse matrix
libraries can perform this ouf of the box (the data btw is extremely
sparse). Columns of the matrix is the target node, for nodes pointing
to j, get the j'th column. I interrogated LLM on sparse access on a
seperate session, it knows about it, well, it spat out the knowledge
in an encyclopedic, parroty fashion, but it has the knowledge... But
it can't put two and two together. That's because it doesn't truly
*know* anything. LLM has no ability to research, trawl new ground. If
something is not in the training data, it doesn't exist.

---

Lebanon might be walking towards another civil war. The West pressured
Hesbollah to disarm, they said no. Pressure applied on Lebanon
president to insist on disarming.. things are coming to a head. The
buzz in Middle East is that once things "get going" US will unleash
HTS on the Shites, taking over Lebanon.

---

"With or without Russia?"...

Did Russia give at least tacit support for the development of the
corridor?

Al Jazeera: "Velayati, a top adviser to Iran’s supreme leader, said on
Saturday that Tehran would block the initiative 'with or without
Russia'"

---

The Times of Israel: "Iran threatens planned Trump corridor envisaged
by Azerbaijan-Armenia peace deal.. It was not immediately clear how
Iran, which borders the area, would block it, but the statement from
Ali Akbar Velayati, top adviser to Iran’s supreme leader, raised
questions over its security. He said military exercises carried out in
northwest Iran demonstrated the Islamic Republic’s readiness and
determination to prevent any geopolitical changes."

---

Masse: "We [now] see that two material bodies do not directly attract each
other; the apparent attraction is due to the ﬂow of aether into matter
creating a pressure differential. As Lodge (1908) noted, 'when the
mechanism of attraction is understood, it will be found that a body
really only moves because it is pushed by something from behind.'
Without the physical medium aether, gravitational force would not
exist. Flowing aether carries with it any material body within the
ﬂow. This answers the age-old question of how matter can appear to act
where it is not. Matter acts through the aether it disturbs."

---

Robert Masse: "As the nineteenth century was ending, scientists were
aware of a couple of perplexing problems that existed in physics. The
British physicist Lord Kelvin (1901) referred to these problems as two
'nineteenth century clouds' over physics.

The ﬁrst 'nineteenth century cloud' that concerned Kelvin was how
matter can move through aether if aether is an elastic solid. We see
now that this cloud disappears once we realize that aether is a ﬂuid.

The second 'nineteenth century cloud' that concerned Kelvin was how
aether can act as a ﬂuid for a solid body moving through it, but act
as a solid for light propagating in it.  We see now that this cloud
also disappears once we realize that aether is a ﬂuid that has
rigidity.

These two clouds contributed to the existence of aether
being doubted in the twentieth century. A third source of doubt
about the existence of aether were results obtained from the
famous Michelson-Morley experiments conducted in the 1880s.
These results are inconsistent with any aether motion parallel to
the Earth’s surface, and yet a stationary aether at the Earth’s
surface (resulting from the Earth’s atmosphere dragging the
aether) was ruled out by other experiments. It was not realized
in the twentieth century that, while aether is in motion at the
Earth’s surface, all this motion is vertical to the Earth as aether
ﬂows into the matter of the Earth. Aether ﬂowing vertically into
the Earth is entirely consistent with results from the Michelson-
Morley experiments.."

---

The arguments against aether theories are no longer valid. The proper
theory can debunk them all.

---

The Lever: "Delta Air Lines recently came under fire for announcing
that artificial intelligence will be setting 20 percent of its ticket
prices for its domestic flights by 2026. While Delta subsequently
denied using the tech to engage in “personalized” price gouging, many
airlines, big businesses, and data brokers have allegedly been
dabbling in 'surveillance pricing,' the growing corporate practice
that exploits personal data to charge customers the most that they’re
willing to pay."

---

Austerity = a by-product of encouraging inequality in society. 

---

Murphy: "[L]arge numbers of young [UK] doctors who have been trained
to work in either hospitals or general practice, and who have
accumulated maybe £100,000 of debts to put them in this position, are
not at this moment being offered jobs by the NHS, and the only
possible explanation for that is that [officials] have connived to
ensure that the funding to employ these essential people is not
available.

The argument that we are now short of doctors, which was always the
excuse for the shortage of NHS appointments, is, therefore, now wholly
inappropriate. There are more than enough doctors to employ in the UK
now, with more following on from them as they currently go through
medical school. We could meet the demand for medical services in this
country, but we don't do so solely because Labour will not fund our
ability to do so...

I draw attention to the economic incoherence of those who think that
they are in charge of our economy, but who are in fact slaves to the
defunct, dangerous, and itself incoherent policy of austerity, which
is the only agenda that the UK Treasury and the prevailing political
narratives in the UK permits."

---

"US brokers a deal between long-hostile Armenia and Azerbaijan.. Key
to easing the long-standing conflict is the agreement on the transit
corridor, which includes a commitment to developing the mountainous
stretch of Armenian territory between Azerbaijan and its Nakhichevan
exclave known as the Zangezur Corridor...

Armenia has agreed to award the U.S. exclusive special development
rights on the Zangezur Corridor land for 99 years. The U.S. would
sublease the land to a consortium that will develop rail, oil, gas and
fiber optic lines and possibly electricity transmission along the
27-mile corridor"

---

I've heard mil experts say the plan is a suicide mission. They will be
walking into Ambush Central and will likely lose hundreds of people
daily.. It is hard to see the goal of this attempt within mil context,
so it is likely political - trying to make a dissenting military brass
look bad, trying to gain time.. 

---

This Zamir guy speaka some truth..

The Times of Israel: "Netanyahu and Israel Defense Forces Chief of
Staff Eyal Zamir reportedly clashed over the government’s incipient
plan to fully occupy the Gaza Strip, with Zamir arguing that the
decision constitutes a 'trap' for the IDF."

---

In terms of AI we barely scratched the surface.. The work that remains
to be done is hundred-fold of what we have today.

---

"@eb@social.coop

I also think in a lot of ways the tech bros and their GPUs are
hurtling towards some dead ends. Like the models keep getting bigger
and more impressiver but they still fail in much of the same ways,
they just get a little further than last time.

Like a couple days ago Google announced Genie 3—a sort of real time
generative video that takes keyboard inputs. Genie 2 would fall apart
after a few seconds of this. Genie 3 can go a few minutes. That's
really great for them except I don't care?"

---

"@eb@social.coop

I feel like LLMs have gotten worse over time. Probably partly true
(prompt overfitting), but also I think there was a lot of novelty
initially. The fact it could do anything was amazing. Now I've sort of
figured out what it can and can't do. As it turns out it can't do a
lot of the things that I do. Every time I ask it to do one of these
things I know it can't do I get a good laugh and am reassured that it
won't be replacing me any time soon."

---

"Make America first again" \#Buchanan

[[-]](https://youtu.be/qBm7SZ_WjYY?t=25)

---

Of course he was called an "anti-semite" back in the day for being
against AIPAC.

---

Buchanan is the father of the MAGA movement

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CpgtrkVY0eU" title="&quot;The Congress of the United States is an Israeli occupied territory&quot; - Pat Buchanan" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

The Lever: "How Big Tech Powered A Justice Department Coup.. After a
secret lobbying effort, Trump’s Justice Department ousted staff and
reversed course on Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s proposed megamerger."

[[-]](https://www.levernews.com/how-big-tech-powered-a-justice-department-coup/)

---

CNBC: "[8/1] A fresh ultimatum demanding 'binding commitments' to
lower U.S. drug prices sent pharma firms scrambling Friday. President
Trump sent letters to 17 major firms outlining the steps they must
take to cut costs. Healthcare stocks tumbled Friday."

---

Per Turchin's research, elite overproduction, a direct result of rising
inequality, causes chaos in society and eventually leads to the
destruction of the same elite.

---

Fortune: "Clubs, with free wi-fi, buffets of cold snacks and heated
steam trays, and a range of complimentary drinks. The Sky Clubs were
no match for the burst of revenge travelers. Bastian’s efforts to fix
these problems in 2023—barring Basic Economy passengers and capping
the number of visits allowed for credit card holders—sparked backlash
on customers’ part and soul-searching for Bastian. 'We are victims of
our own success,' he told Fast Company.. as he explained changes to
benefits including access to Sky Club lounges. 'It’s hard to tell
someone who’s been at a certain status for many years that what
they’ve earned is no longer as valuable.'

That’s why the declining pleasure of the airport lounge resonates for
a deeper reason: it’s a metaphor for the declining prospects of the
upper middle class in an age of 'elite overproduction,' which argues
that certain societies grow so rich and successful that they produce
too many people of premium education for the number of premium jobs—or
premium experiences—that the economy can actually support.

The elites have been so overproduced that you can literally see
them—in lines stretching out of airport lounges"

---

Latest US Navy locations.. compared to previous map, there is movement
towards Iran..

```python
u.plot_us_navy("usnavy-0805.csv", "map13.html")
```

[[-]](map13.html)

---

He should've thought of that before he gave the green light for the
Maidan coup.. He saw the light but it was too late.

Brookings: "[2016] Obama said Ukraine is a core interest for Moscow in
a way that it is not for the United States. .. The administration
rejected lethal military assistance. In our meetings last year with
senior U.S. officials, it was apparent that the White House’s main
concern was escalation"

---

Cato: "[2017] Both the Obama administration and most of the American
news media portrayed the Euromaidan Revolution as a spontaneous,
popular uprising against a corrupt and brutal government... It was a
grotesque distortion to portray the events in Ukraine as a purely
indigenous, popular uprising. The Nuland-Pyatt telephone conversation
and other actions confirm that the United States was considerably more
than a passive observer to the turbulence. Instead, U.S. officials
were blatantly meddling in Ukraine. Such conduct was utterly
improper. The United States had no right to try to orchestrate
political outcomes in another country—especially one on the border of
another great power. It is no wonder that Russia reacted badly to the
unconstitutional ouster of an elected, pro-Russian government—an
ouster that occurred not only with Washington’s blessing, but
apparently with its assistance."

---

He is buddy-buddy with Zionist scum too of course. A one-time friend
of Rabbi Schnozzy. But you know how it is, you can take the senator
out of schnozz, you can't take the schnozz out of the senator.

---

CB is a pretty lukewarm centrist type, an "Old Democrat" of the
Clinton, Obama mold, economic right social left.. Noone on the left
should expect any favors from these people.

NY Post: "Cory Booker refuses to endorse Zohran Mamdani for NYC mayor"

---

GNN: "Australia’s Revolutionary Hydrogen Powder Is Easier and Cheaper
to Use for Clean Energy.. The partnership from Curtin University and
Velox Energy Materials devised a circular hydrogen industry consisting
of hydrogen generation, the capacity to turn it into a powdered
storage form, and the infrastructure to refill the expended powder
with new hydrogen... funded by the Australian government, reports
suggest this innovation will catapult Australia to the position of
world leader in renewable hydrogen exportation...  [I]t all starts
with a powder: sodium borohydride, abbreviated (NaBH4).. The journey
of NaBH4 from a component in the dyeing and paper-making industries to
a surprise role as the lynchpin in a renewable energy revolution began
in 2022, when Deakin University scientists in Australia applied the
new science of mechanochemical reaction to infuse gas into powders by
spinning it at high speeds in chambers filled with metal balls."

---

South Couscous.. The Russians are coming.

Euronews: "Russia increasing military presence in Armenia.. Ukrainian
military intelligence said that Moscow was increasing its forces at
the Gyumri base to exert greater influence in the South Caucasus"

---

A former businessman.. Of course. That makes sense perfect sense now.

---

Armenia will be rolled into this scheme?

Barrack tells TR to have the "millet system", tells Syrians "to
unite", but it's fine if Syrian, Iraqi Kurds to join TR as "outside
millets"?

---

Having said that, I have respect for religion, but intrusive noises
from places of worship are not welcome. Church bells, loud badly read
Adhan (most are).. Not cool.

---

Apparently his forebears were from the Ottoman Empire (Lebanon!), so
tries to act like "homie", keeps promoting the "millet system" of
Ottomans to current Turkese, a lot of homie falls for it. The "millet
system" he talks about is worse than today's Lebanon.  If you are
minority they'd make you dress in your "ethnic clothing", you'll walk
around like a f-ing clown and ring your church bell made out of
wood. Have you ever heard a church bell made out of f-ing wood?

---

This guy is connecting everything to everything else.. US Amb. to TR.

Tom Barrack: "Just take the the Abraham Accords [arguing others should
join].. Turkey as a non-Arab country with a Muslim-majority
population, Israel, the Gulf, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan, and moving
north, Azerbaijan, Armenia... When you unite these, the world's most
powerful region emerges. Why not?"

---

"@afewbugs@social.coop

I think one of the (many) problems in England right now is that
nothing works anymore after decades of underinvestment, but
bureaucracy acts like it still does. Government website down? The
deadline still exists. Documents lost in the post? Not an excuse
because that's not supposed to be possible. Didn't buy a train ticket
because the machine wasn't working and they've closed the ticket
office? Still get a fine. Late for work because public transport is
collapsing? No excuse."

---

"@vlepy@lewacki.space

In Finland, charging fees for tuition is illegal, which means rich
kids have to mix with normal kids, which means rich families had to
make sure the schools the kid went to were good, which meant the rich
were prompted to invest in public schools. Finland, take a bow."

---

"@pezmico@mastodon.nz

While buying the refrigerator, the sales person enthusiastically
pointed at one shiny new model fridge:

- This one has a WiFi connection.
+ Nope. Don't want that.
- It's alright, it's really only for firmware updates.
+ Nope. Nope. No internet at all for the fridge please.

Call me a luddite, but I am staunch in my belief that almost all of my
home appliances have no business being online and are actually much
better offline.

---

"Bye bye Microsoft.. An entire country, Denmark, a German Länder,
dozens of communes, such as Lyon, France's third largest
city... Slowly but surely, local authorities are switching to Linux,
LibreOffice and NextCloud. The aim is not only economic, but also to
assert their digital sovereignty."

[[-]](https://incyber.org/article/bye-bye-microsoft-comment-organisations-mettent-logiciel-libre/)

---

It was an anti-goverment pro-rich pro-corporate movie.. The bad people
worked for the government, but thanks to Amazon drones and intrepid,
"free-spirited" citizens the world was saved. They beat "the Matrix".

---

"@GossiTheDog@cyberplace.social

Amazon made a War of the Worlds movie.. where Amazon is the hero
corporation that spies on people and saves the world via Amazon
orders"

---

Driving H2: "A small town in Washington state makes its own hydrogen
fuel for only $4 per kg..In a quiet pocket of central Washington,
where the Columbia River winds its way through fruit orchards and high
desert, a small public utility has pulled off something that much of
the hydrogen world still insists is too expensive to be done. They’ve
built a fully functioning, publicly accessible green hydrogen station
– and they’re selling fuel at four dollars per kilogram. You read that
right, four bucks per kilogram."

---

I guess you could say US was made into a cultural Lebanon of sorts.

---

They want to turn "Turkey" into a Lebanon too. Tom Barrack is on the
job.

---

In US you Zionify. For others it's about "Lebanonification". Iraq and
Syria were turned into Lebanon, little minorities, fear their own
shadows, do not feel fealty to their state... They get quotas for
their little pieces in government. See the connection?

---

Yep hey literally named the place Zion. *The Matrix* was
anti-government pro-corporate propaganda. Remember the hallway scene,
that's a government building they enter and they shoot up the place
kill government employees.

---

Corporate interests, the surface state probably wants every minority
in US to be "Zionified". You should feel connected to an "outside
state", real or imaginary, that is not your own (this is key, never
develop an idea of homeland, so you demand less from your state, so
the rich will not be taxed one day), you feel minor, *small* in your
own land.. Blacks should idolize Wakanda, Jews should idolize
Israel... 

Whites need to pine after a Zion as well, but the one in The
Matrix. Just like in the movie you have to be against your own
government, "the system", fear it, and they have to fight it so one
day they can end up in the mytical Zion.

---

Wakanda - an advanced ethno-centric state away from minority kins in
other countries.. 

It sounds kinda like Israel.

---

I asked it to convert one type of code to another type.. Code reads a
3D object from an STL file, does some physics... G3 is like "yo I
could not find the line that reads the file". The code literally has a
line that says `stl.mesh.Mesh.from_file`. I would expect a mid-size
LLM mode to be at worst half as dumb, not completely fucking
dumb. This is stupider than the stupidest developer. I could ask the
random guy off the street show him the code and he could tell which
part of the code reads a file.

---

Tried out Gemma3, a reduced size local LLM (~3.5 GB). It goes berserk
with large inputs (a local LLM does not mean they can process larger
files) and while they can describe what is going on in images, they
cannot do the same for audio. Its code writing ability is very
crude. It makes shit up constantly, this is the famous hallucination
problem. The larger Gemini is usable enough but models like that
require the energy input of Ireland to be useful.

---

US navy deployment, as of 07/21, rough locations. Groups seem to be
located in close proximity to both ISR, IRN and some RU. There is a
group in the Indian Ocean they are probably the ones that tucked tail
and ran away from Houthis to a "safe distance".

```python
u.plot_us_navy('usnavy-0711.csv', "map12.html")
```

[[-]](map12.html)

---

\#Ukraine 07/30 - 08/05

[[-]](ukrdata/map30.html)

---
