# Week 38

FT: "Oil and gas groups spend $500bn a year 'to stand still' as fields
decline, says IEA"

---

8NewsNow:"'Immediate and substantial reductions' in Colorado River
water use could be needed much sooner than anyone predicted, according
to a study published last week. The problem: People are using more
water than the amount that has been coming down the river, and it
could reach a tipping point by the end of next summer. That’s the
conclusion of a study involving research and collaboration among four
universities..  That means hard choices are ahead unless a very wet
winter rescues 40 million water users along the river."

---

Stevenson: "If you were running a construction company in this
economic context of a collapsing middle, collapsing government,
collapsing poor, absolutely skyrocketing wealth of the rich, what kind
of housing are you gonna build? You are gonna build super luxury
housing for super rich people because they are obviously the guys with
the money. And then when it comes to ordinary people's housing, you're
gonna give them the cheapest possible thing, because you know that
they have very very little money, and they basically have to buy
whatever they can, [paying with] whatever they can give you.

We we need to deal with this absurdly simplistic view of economics
which says things like build build, grow grow, as if that is not what
every government for the last 30-35 years all over the world has been
constantly trying to do. The problem is inequality... The problem here
is *not* not enough building, the problem here is *not* not enough
growth, the problem here is rapid and aggressive changing in [wealth]
distribution, and changing in your relative power position. If you
are not a super rich, you are the group that is losing, and that means
you get less housing, it's as simple as that.

Build build build, it's not gonna work I often think when I hear
politicians say build build build, when I go back to the house I grew
up in. There's a massive block of flats now. I grew up in sort of a
traditional terraced small row houses, there's a massive block of
flats there now blocking out the sun and the you know, that the street
I grew up in is basically a slum.. I always wonder when they say build
build build, these politicians, are they gonna build massive blocks of
flats overlooking their houses?  Or are they gonna build massive
blocks of flats of extremely low quality housing overlooking your
house?"

---

???. Don't worry about anyone's dominance.. The tech already stalled
(if we are talking abt LLMs). Other deep neural net approaches eg
vision perform what they can, their ability has been increasing
gradually ever since 2010s like anything else.. But everyone has
access to that know-how.

"Dave McCormick: ‘We should be deeply worried’ about China’s AI
dominance"

---

Parampil, *Corporate Coup*: "For multinational corporations seeking
favorable rulings against sovereign governments for the 'crime' of
reclaiming their land and resources, the venue of choice was the
DC-based International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes
tribunal (ICSID).. 'ICSID is not an independent arbitrator of
justice,' [an economist] explained to me. 'ICSID is a neocolonial
gatekeeper of transnational corporate impunity.'..

The tribunal’s deference to international capital was baked into its
structure. The ICSID was established in 1966 as a subsidiary of the
World Bank Group, and the president of the World Bank—historically a
former US oﬀicial or banking executive—also served as president of the
tribunal.  At ICSID, investor-state disputes were overseen and
resolved by three arbitrators: one selected by the state, one selected
by the investor, and a third typically selected by the World Bank
president.

'Arbitrators are heavily biased toward commercial—not public—law, and
are mostly from law ﬁrms heavily associated with transnational
corporations,' explained Arauz. 'The cases are almost always against
states of the Global South.'

Arauz noted that according to ICSID treaties, corporate entities are
allowed to initiate arbitration against states, yet states cannot ﬁle
arbitrations against corporations, arguing such rules 'structurally
demonstrated that ICSID is intentionally designed to exclusively
attend to the interests of transnational corporations.'

Crystallex initiated arbitration against Venezuela’s government at
ICSID in February 2011, asserting Caracas owed it $3.16 billion plus
interest for its expropriation of Las Cristinas despite the fact that
the mine was never operational. ICSID sided with Crystallex and
ordered Venezuela’s government to pay the company 1.2 billion plus
interest in April 2016, declaring Caracas’s decision to nationalize
its natural gold supply was made 'for purely political reasons.'"

---

Artificial Superintelligence is coming for you. Run for your lives

---

Big fail

Martin Bauer: "this is what a Transformer found after looking at 10M
solar systems"

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/115/213/412/106/341/067/original/95d46a53c89c1999.jpg'/>

---

Chollet: "A student who truly understands F=ma can solve more novel
problems than a Transformer [neural net] that has memorized every
physics textbook ever written."

---

F24: "Zucman tax’: Push to tax the super-rich could make or break
France’s next government.. As Emmanuel Macron looks for an elusive
path out of France’s political deadlock, left-wing lawmakers have made
their support conditional on approval of a tax on the country’s
wealthiest households named after economist Gabriel Zucman, whose
recipe for more progressive taxation would be a bitter pill to swallow
for the French president"

---

Brutal... 

\#FreePalestine

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/_TjpWygxa34)

---

The point on radicalism is easy to refute: when Assad was in power
(secular, non-jihadi) Israel still bombed Syria. They will simply
attack anyone who is near. There is no need to look for terrorists
roaming about in the region - the biggest terror threat in the Middle
East is Israel itself.

---

Ryan Grim: "[Israel] commissioned an American polling firm to perform
a sweeping battery of surveys and focus groups, coupled with
message-testing, aimed at rehabilitating Israel’s image in both the
United States and Europe... the research found Europeans in particular
'agree with the language of Israel being a genocidal, apartheid
country'.. Israel’s best tactic to combat this, according to the
study, is to foment fear of 'Radical Islam' and 'Jihadism,'..
research finds"

[[-]](https://www.dropsitenews.com/p/leaked-israel-reputation-survey-research-mark-penn-stagwell)

---

IC: "There are moments in history that strip away every illusion we
carry about ourselves. Gaza is one such moment. For nearly two years,
the world has witnessed a genocide live on its screens. We have seen
children pulled from rubble, families starving in tents, hospitals
turned to dust. We cannot say we did not know. Every image, every cry,
every number has reached us in real time. And yet the killing goes on,
the silence goes on, life goes on.

The truth is unbearable but undeniable: we have failed Gaza, and in
doing so, we have failed ourselves as human beings."

---

IC: "European Parliament asks for Recognition of Palestinian State,
Upholds halt to Aid to Israel"

---

Netan *personally* installed the device under the guise of going to
the bathroom? Zio have gone bonkers. 

Politico: "[2024/10] Netanyahu bugged my bathroom, Boris Johnson
suggests.. Ex-prime minister says his security team 'found a listening
device in the thunderbox' after the Israeli PM visited."

---

\#Carlson \#Kirk

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/LrQGPDjALd4?start=281&end=386&autoplay=1)

---

Charlie Kirk: "[04/03] It’s going unnoticed because so much other news
is happening, but the war drums are beating again in D.C. The
warmongers worry this is their last chance to get the white whale
they’ve been chasing for thirty years, an all-out regime change war
against Iran.

A new Middle East war would be a catastrophic mistake. Our military
stockpiles are depleted from three years of backing Ukraine. Our
effort to reshore manufacturing has only just begun and will take
years to bear fruit. War would worsen our already immense deficit and
national debt. Iran is larger than Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan
combined. A war would not be easy and could easily become a calamity.

Thanks to President Trump’s restraint during his first term, America
has a golden opportunity to pull away from Middle East quagmires for
good. We shouldn’t throw that opportunity away so that sone
D.C. has-beens can feel tough by sending young Americans to die yet
again."

---

The Economic Times: "Candance Owens has made startling claims against
billionaire hedge fund manager and Trump ally Bill Ackman and.. Seth
Dillon. Owens alleged a 'high-stakes intervention' involving the two
and Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk took place just weeks
before his tragic assassination... Owens alleged that..
Ackman,.. Seth Dillon participated in an 'intense intervention' where
'threats were made' to influence Kirk's stance on Israel."

---

\#HarrisonSmith \#Israel

[[-]](https://youtu.be/5kIUPKASaiM?t=1176)

---

\#Kirk \#GenZ

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LL4W1345ndE?t=538)

---

The American Conservative: "Charlie Kirk Was an Important Antiwar
Voice..In the ongoing intra-conservative debate over foreign policy,
he championed America First... progressive reporter Ryan Grim posted,
on the day after conservative pundit Charlie Kirk was fatally shot,
'There are many layers of tragedy to the assassination of Charlie
Kirk, first and foremost for him and his distraught family, and then
also for our country which only gets ripped further apart.' Grim
added, 'But a third layer of tragedy is that Charlie was genuinely
grappling with our ironclad support for Israel in a serious way, and
now that journey for him has been cut short.'

Grim shared these thoughts with a month-old video of Kirk being
interviewed by Megyn Kelly, in which they discussed being attacked as
anti-Semites for merely questioning Israel’s leadership. 'I have less
ability sometimes online to criticize the Israeli government without
backlash than actual Israelis do,' Kirk observed. ''That's really
really weird, isn't it?' Both Kirk and Kelly acknowledged they were on
Israel’s side, but also said that its government should not be beyond
reproach.

On other topics, Kirk’s anti-war, America First views were
undeniable. Six months ago, Kirk, a vocal opponent of the U.S. sending
aid to Ukraine, said of America’s role in that country’s war with
Russia, 'You have to ask the very simple question: Who benefits from
peace and who benefits from war?... The people of Ukraine benefit from
peace. The people of America benefit from peace. Humanity benefits
from peace.'

'But then who benefits from the war?' he asked. 'The
military-industrial complex, oligarchs of the ruling class of
Ukraine.' These were not one-off, random foreign policy thoughts from
Kirk, who was assassinated on Wednesday."

---

\#Kirk \#Israel

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/embed/fQ9VOlaBBeo?start=1696&end=1801)

---

How about this Tony: your Labor implodes bcz of that New Labor
centrist shit you started along with your buddy Bill Fucking Clinton,
there will be no one left in the party to care about you or Peter
Mandelson, life goes on, you go down in history as the man who
destroyed an entire political organization.

---

Hah! Learn to love.. that's f-ing great. 

BBC: "Tony Blair once said the New Labour project would only be
complete when party members had 'learnt to love Peter Mandelson'".

---

"I want the country I was born in back. I was born in 1955 into social
housing. We kids had a great comprehensive education. Most of the boys
moved into apprenticeships and learned a trade. Others went on to
higher learning to become our doctors, teachers, lawyers, etc. All of
our council rent and energy costs were nationalised, everything went
back to the government and councils. This country was destroyed by
privatisation and capitalisation."

---

Programmer: "Why I’m Writing Pure HTML & CSS in 2025.. Imagine a web
page that loads instantly, deploys effortlessly, and never needs a
security update.. I’m using pure HTML and CSS to accomplish all that
and to build things in a fraction of the time.

Building HTML pages is easy.. As software engineers, I think we have a
tendency to over-engineer things. If you’ve built web pages recently,
you probably used HTML and CSS, but you probably also used a complex
framework, over-engineered JavaScript, crazy deployment routines, and
more.

By contrast, for me, building pure HTML and CSS pages is a breeze and
a joy... Bloated web pages are too slow.. In 2024 a study looked at
over eight million websites and found the normal page size to be
2.65MB and growing at a rate of 8% per year."

---

Counterfire: "In the decade from 2014-2024, when our prisons were
filling up and Britain recorded the highest level of incarceration in
Europe, more than twenty Dutch prisons were closed as their prison
population decreased by more than 40%. How? By tackling health issues,
particularly mental health, both inside and outside jail, and by
focussing on rehabilitation rather than retribution"

---

The Grayzone: "Charlie Kirk rejected an offer earlier this year
from.. Netanyahu to arrange a massive new infusion of Zionist money
into [his organization], America’s largest conservative youth
association, according to a longtime friend of the slain
commentator... The source told The Grayzone that the late pro-Trump
influencer believed Netanyahu was trying to cow him into silence as he
began to publicly question Israel’s overwhelming influence in
Washington and demanded more space to criticize it...

In the weeks leading up to his September 10 assassination, Kirk had
come to loathe the Israeli leader, regarding him as a “bully,” the
source said...

According to Kirk’s friend, who also enjoyed access to President
Donald Trump and his inner circle, Kirk strongly warned Trump last
June against bombing Iran on Israel’s behalf. 'Charlie was the only
person who did that,' they said, recalling how Trump 'barked at him'
in response and angrily shut down the conversation.. By the following
month, Kirk had become the target of a sustained private campaign of
intimidation and free-floating fury by wealthy and powerful allies of
Netanyahu..

[F]ew American gentiles had proved more valuable to the
self-proclaimed Jewish state than Charlie Kirk... But as Israel’s
genocidal assault on the besieged Gaza Strip drove an unprecedented
backlash within grassroots right-wing circles, where only 24% of
younger Republicans now sympathize with Israel over the Palestinians,
Kirk began to shift"

---

