# Week 16

Politico: "In unprecedented move, DNC official to spend big to take
down fellow Democrats..  David Hogg, the DNC vice chair, wants to take
down some safe incumbents.  Leaders We Deserve, which Hogg co-founded
in 2023, announced plans on Tuesday to spend $20 million in safe-blue
Democratic primaries against sitting House members by supporting
younger opponents"

---

US is a corporatocracy. They are in charge, other power centers are
their puppet. Israel could never have pulled off this mayhem they've
created if it wasn't for MIC's permission. Helpless civilians are
dying for *money*, not any strategery. We need to be clear about that.

---

DuPont is MIC, hard core. DW is part documentary, see the shady shit
they've done... All true.

---

*Dark Waters*, excellent work. You learn a lot abt the history of
PFOA, C8, forever chemicals and Dupont. That is one evil corporation.

---

I thought markets were efficient just they way they are... You let
them be, and you will always achieve great results in the
aggregate.. Wasn't that the idea?

"Anti-trust can be a right-wing approach, as it is about increasing
the efficiency of the market"

---

Reuters: "Biden attacks Trump administration over staff cuts at Social
Security Administration.. Biden said the Trump administration has
'taken a hatchet' to the agency... 'This new administration has done
so much damage and so much destruction,' he said, as he called Social
Security.. 'a sacred promise we made as a nation. We know just how
much Social Security matters to people's lives.'"

---

Politico: "California is first state to sue Trump on tariffs.. It’s
Gov. Gavin Newsom’s most direct move against Trump since the president
retook office."

---

What happened to IoT? You rarely hear that buzzword anymore. Now an
older hype?

---

L. Lohan is clearly a fine actress.. She is playing twins in the
movie, one with a heavy accent, and she is like 12.

---

Said *The Parent Trap* was a great example of old movies looking
better, watched it, it's true.

---

Critic says new movies look dull, like sludge, flat. In older movies
colors looked bold, shadows are rich, some exterior shots even look
like oil paintings. The contrasts are great. His expl is new digital
cameras kept improving high dynamic range, but the tech shows too
much. Have to adjust the new tech differently to create a good viewing
experience, most directors don't try.

---

Copilot LLM is pretty dumb... I've described a task to it in gazillion
different ways still doesn't get it.

---

NPR: "[2013] Wave Of Illegal Immigrants Gains Speed After NAFTA.. The
North American Free Trade Agreement, known as NAFTA, turns 20 next
week. Hailed as a boon for regional trade, it had some undesirable
effects. It hastened a trend away from small farmers, and speeded
illegal immigration to the U.S."

---

Jon Oliver is the common ancestor. All Jews descend from his lineage..
The Jewish Adam.

---

And there is this..  

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/113/440/374/639/885/782/original/10e450f5b1c67f25.jpeg)

---

I guess he looks like Munchkin Mnuchin a little 

[[-]](https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/342/816/991/200/703/original/dc7b41736e0a252e.jpg)

---

Shapiro was attacked because he looks too Jew? Jewy Jewman?

---

\#Frontline \#Sudan 03/22 - 04/15

[[-]](sdndata/map03.html)

---

\#Frontline \#Ukraine 04/07 - 04/15

[[-]](ukrdata/map16.html)

---

Paper: "The global plastic waste crisis requires innovative solutions,
and pyrolysis has emerged as a promising technology. This review
critically examines pyrolysis technologies for plastic waste
management, focusing on their efficiency, economic potential, and
environmental impact. Pyrolysis can convert 60 %–80 % of plastic waste
into liquid fuels..  Pyrolysis generates a range of gases, including
hydrogen (H2), methane (CH4), ethylene (C2H4), propylene (C3H6), and
other hydrocarbons... Hydrogen gas, a key pyrolysis product, has
applications in fuel cells and as a clean energy carrier"

[[-]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0196890425000342)

---

BBC: "Landmark antitrust trial could force Zuckerberg to sell Instagram"

---

GF could've stayed on longer as champ, continuously past 70s, if it
wasn't for a certain Mohammad Ali who staged his own legendary
comeback in 1974. He took a lot of punishment for that win though,
maybe that contributed to his later health problems... Everyone says
Foreman punches hit a man like a ton of bricks. MA sat there and took
all that, just to tire out GF (it worked, obviously).

---

The master of the technique: George Foreman, esp. after his return
80/90s.

---

Cross guard is ok. It will work wout gloves.

---

The Sound Stylistics - The Players Theme \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/YCrVEP4QcJ4)

---

Politico: "[A] Democratic lawmaker is seeking a simple but jarring
remedy of last resort for California’s college students navigating the
state’s housing crisis: Let them sleep in their cars... While roughly
half a dozen state legislative proposals this year seek to fund
student or faculty housing or loosen building regulations, the
benefits would come far too late for current students struggling to
stay afloat. With one in four California community college students
experiencing homelessness in the past year, Democrats — who have a
supermajority in the statehouse — face increasing pressure to deliver
on affordability issues.

---

\#Zillow - Affording Housing Today

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/334/452/653/270/608/original/11cf61caef55c476.jpg'/>

---

Sometimes a certain element isn't actually "rare", the slave labor to
mine it, and countries who are willing to pollute the environment to
produce it are "rare". In that case, automation, clean ways to mine
and process can help.

---

We fast need to develop synthetic subsitutes for every rare element

---

I'm glad these dependency points are becoming more visible now. If
certain high-tech products cannot be built without input from a single
country, they may as well not be built. The system is not resillient.

NYT: "China has suspended exports of a wide range of critical minerals
and magnets, threatening to choke off supplies of components central
to automakers, aerospace manufacturers, semiconductor companies and
military contractors around the world"

---

F24: "Trump vows tariffs for all, signals China exemptions will be
short-lived"

---

Phys.org: "Gas boilers now biggest source of air pollution in central
London, study shows "

---

Times of Israel: "Over 1,600 former IDF paratroopers and infantry
soldiers have signed a letter demanding the government reach a deal to
bring the hostages home, even if it means ending the war, according to
a Ynet report. The letter states: 'We, the fighters and commanders of
the paratroopers and infantry units, whose flag bears the words: "We
do not leave wounded behind on the battlefield," call for the return
of the hostages, even at the cost of halting the fighting. This is a
call to save lives'"

---

ProPublica: "An Algorithm Deemed This Nearly Blind 70-Year-Old
Prisoner a “Moderate Risk.” Now He’s No Longer Eligible for Parole."

---

Slowly US is going towards less dependence... DJT first term enacted
tariffs on China, Biden kept them. Now more are added, though some
later reversed, trend seems to be more, not less.

---

Brexit was about reversing *localization*, refusing to trade w/
countries near them in the same block as them.. Imagine Virginia
refusing to trade w Tennesee. Trump Tariffs have (had) wider reach,
they were an attack on the global order.

NYT: "How Brexit, a Startling Act of Economic Self-Harm, Foreshadowed
Trump’s Tariffs"

---

Pascal found his niche in getting cucked, did across multiple shows..
Business is good.

---

Upcoming Fantastic Four movie might be Woke..? Pedro Pascal's pick was
the signal, we see now.. He is the actor you pick when you want to
cuck a white looking man who technically isn't white. "He is LatinX!
It's fine!" studios signal us.. "It's Woke but for another
ethnicity". Phew. We feel much better now.

---

Clean Technica: "Trinasolar Sets Green Hydrogen Record In
China.. Trina Green Hydrogen has already scaled up one electrolyzer
production facility in China to 1 gigawatt, and that’s just for
starters. 'The company will soon commission a second production base
in Yangzhou, China, which will increase its manufacturing capacity to
2.5GW, enabling it to produce up to 500 electrolyzers per year,
reinforcing Trinasolar’s ability to meet growing global demand for
clean hydrogen,' Trinasolar noted"

---

Imagine a room full of people playing such an evolutionary game, one
strategy is Slap-for-Slap, if person get slapped on the face in one
round, he will slap back in the next round. In perfect information
scenario no one would slap anyone. But introduce a little noise
(misunderstanding, wrongful attack) slapping back and forth would
start, and after a while everyone in that room would be slapping the
shit out of each other. Some forgiveness would alleviate that.

---

Ball, *Critical Mass*: "One of the most interesting and important
questions we can ask of the Prisoner’s Dilemma is what kind of
behavior emerges when the players can evolve—when they are allowed to
change their strategies.. This can be simulated in Axelrod-style
tournaments by including an evolutionary dimension. At the end of one
full round-robin, for example, we might allow players to adopt a new
strategy, where the probability of each strategy’s being chosen is
proportional to that strategy’s overall score. In this way, the more
successful strategies will multiply while ones that perform poorly
will die out. It’s not hard to see that this is a Darwinian 'survival
of the fittest' scenario. It mimics the way in which genetic mutations
spread in a population..

[Nowak, Sigmund] .. conducted just such an experiment in game theory
in 1992, with salutary results. They set up a diverse population of
strategies, in all of which the choice of whether to cooperate or
defect was determined by what the opponent did in the previous
round. Some strategies were more inclined toward defection, others
tended to cooperation. Nowak and Sigmund let them all compete against
one another, and then altered the proportions of each of them in line
with their relative successes.

Naïvely, we might expect that this evolutionary mode) will be ruled by
Tit for Tat, which appears generally to fare best in a mixed
population. And this did at first seem to be the outcome...  But [it
was] found that the triumph of TFT is short-lived.  Once it has
established a culture of cooperation, TFT starts to suffer from its
Achilles’ heel: unforgivingness. These simulations contained an
inherent amount of noise in the way the strategies worked, and this
meant that TFT was gradually superseded by its more tolerant sibling,
Generous Tit for Tat.  In the end, only GTFT remained"

---

Jesus was onto something when he talked abt forgiveness as opposed to
immediate reprisal which in Game Theory called Tit-for-Tat.  Such
approaches can be tested in an evolutionary simulations, in multiple
rounds where multiple players are tested and each player is allowed to
change strategy (choose among some possibilities, TFT being
one). Forgiveness can be an evolutionary advantage. Excerpt above.

---

Looks like it was the Riviera of the Middle East

<img width='200' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/114/323/868/505/367/445/original/41c35ab001d908fb.jpg'/>

---

Enough electricity to power a small town, for an entire year.

"The training runs for current generation models that are comparable to
GPT-4o 13 consumed around 20-25 megawatts of power each, lasting
around three months"

---

Stan Lefort feat. JC Sindress - Aravibes \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LY_5nz6NhWE)

---

ProPublica: "An Algorithm Deemed This Nearly Blind 70-Year-Old
Prisoner a “Moderate Risk.” Now He’s No Longer Eligible for Parole."

---

Slowly US is going towards less dependence... DJT first term enacted
tariffs on China, Biden kept them. Now more are added, though some
later reversed, trend seems to be more, not less.

---

Brexit was about reversing *localization*, refusing to trade w/
countries near them in the same block as them.. Imagine Virginia
refusing to trade w Tennesee. Trump Tariffs have (had) wider reach,
they were an attack on the global order.

NYT: "How Brexit, a Startling Act of Economic Self-Harm, Foreshadowed
Trump’s Tariffs"

---

Pascal found his niche in getting cucked, did across multiple shows..
Business is good.

---

Upcoming Fantastic Four movie might be Woke..? Pedro Pascal's pick was
the signal, we see now.. He is the actor you pick when you want to
cuck a white looking man who technically isn't white. "He is LatinX!
It's fine!" studios signal us.. "It's Woke but for another
ethnicity". Phew. We feel much better now.

---

Clean Technica: "Trinasolar Sets Green Hydrogen Record In
China.. Trina Green Hydrogen has already scaled up one electrolyzer
production facility in China to 1 gigawatt, and that’s just for
starters. 'The company will soon commission a second production base
in Yangzhou, China, which will increase its manufacturing capacity to
2.5GW, enabling it to produce up to 500 electrolyzers per year,
reinforcing Trinasolar’s ability to meet growing global demand for
clean hydrogen,' Trinasolar noted"

---

Imagine a room full of people playing such an evolutionary game, one
strategy is Slap-for-Slap, if person get slapped on the face in one
round, he will slap back in the next round. In perfect information
scenario no one would slap anyone. But introduce a little noise
(misunderstanding, wrongful attack) slapping back and forth would
start, and after a while everyone in that room would be slapping the
shit out of each other. Some forgiveness would alleviate that.

---

Ball, *Critical Mass*: "One of the most interesting and important
questions we can ask of the Prisoner’s Dilemma is what kind of
behavior emerges when the players can evolve—when they are allowed to
change their strategies.. This can be simulated in Axelrod-style
tournaments by including an evolutionary dimension. At the end of one
full round-robin, for example, we might allow players to adopt a new
strategy, where the probability of each strategy’s being chosen is
proportional to that strategy’s overall score. In this way, the more
successful strategies will multiply while ones that perform poorly
will die out. It’s not hard to see that this is a Darwinian 'survival
of the fittest' scenario. It mimics the way in which genetic mutations
spread in a population..

[Nowak, Sigmund] .. conducted just such an experiment in game theory
in 1992, with salutary results. They set up a diverse population of
strategies, in all of which the choice of whether to cooperate or
defect was determined by what the opponent did in the previous
round. Some strategies were more inclined toward defection, others
tended to cooperation. Nowak and Sigmund let them all compete against
one another, and then altered the proportions of each of them in line
with their relative successes.

Naïvely, we might expect that this evolutionary mode) will be ruled by
Tit for Tat, which appears generally to fare best in a mixed
population. And this did at first seem to be the outcome...  But [it
was] found that the triumph of TFT is short-lived.  Once it has
established a culture of cooperation, TFT starts to suffer from its
Achilles’ heel: unforgivingness. These simulations contained an
inherent amount of noise in the way the strategies worked, and this
meant that TFT was gradually superseded by its more tolerant sibling,
Generous Tit for Tat.  In the end, only GTFT remained"

---

Jesus was onto something when he talked abt forgiveness as opposed to
immediate reprisal which in Game Theory called Tit-for-Tat.  Such
approaches can be tested in an evolutionary simulations, in multiple
rounds where multiple players are tested and each player is allowed to
change strategy (choose among some possibilities, TFT being
one). Forgiveness can be an evolutionary advantage. Excerpt above.

---

Looks like it was the Riviera of the Middle East

<img width='200' src='https://files.mastodon.social/media_attachments/files/114/323/868/505/367/445/original/41c35ab001d908fb.jpg'/>

---

Enough electricity to power a small town, for an entire year.

"The training runs for current generation models that are comparable to
GPT-4o 13 consumed around 20-25 megawatts of power each, lasting
around three months"

---

Stan Lefort feat. JC Sindress - Aravibes \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/LY_5nz6NhWE)

---
