# Week 5

Puthoff: "Gravitational theory.. is recognized to be essentially
phenomenological in nature. As such, it invites attempts at derivation
from a more fundamental set of underlying assumptions, and six such
attempts are outlined in the standard reference book *Gravitation*, by
Misner, Thorne, and Wheeler. Of the six approaches presented..
perhaps the most far-reaching in its implications for an underlying
model is one due to Sakharov; namely, that gravitation is not a
fundamental interaction at all, but rather an induced effect brought
about by changes in the quantum-fluctuation energy of the vacuum when
matter is present. In this view the attractive gravitational force is
more akin to the induced van der Waals and Casimir forces.. In this
paper we explore the Saharov viewpoint on the basis of a conceptually
simple, classical model"

[[-]](http://www.earthtech.org/publications/PRAv39_2333.pdf)

---

Louis de Brogli was JPV's mentor we mentioned earlier. Big shot. 

---

Jean-Pierre Vigier: "The evidence from.. six experiments that bear on
the question of the speed of gravity is unambiguous in excluding
answers as slow as lightspeed...  no serious claim of experimental
support for gravity propagating at lightspeed has been advanced in
modern times. Attempts to do so have seriously confused changes in
gravitational force fields with gravitational radiation (an effect of
changes in potential fields), the latter of which unquestionably would
propagate at speed c..

When a source mass accelerates, that induces changes in its
gravitational force field. The lack of detectable aberration
(propagation delay) for those changes means that the distant
gravitational field accelerates when the source mass accelerates, in
lockstep. To avoid direct violation of the causality principle, the
propagation delay must be finite, even though much smaller than the
corresponding propagation delay for photons. Because special
relativity (SR) forbids propagation speeds faster than lightspeed in
forward time, the customary interpretation of that theory is in
conflict with, and is potentially falsified by, this result. GR has
always implicitly recognized these facts through its equations of
motion, which use instantaneous coordinates and momenta rather than
retarded ones. That and its reliance on a single frame to define
‘‘coordinate time’’ mean that GR is based as much on Lorentz’s
interpretation of relativity (LR) as on SR. These two theories, LR and
SR, both employ the relativity principle and the same math (Lorentz
transformations), but LR adopts a preferred frame and lacks the
reciprocity between frames postulated by SR. Interestingly, no
experiment testing SR or LR confirms frame reciprocity. Therefore,
because LR is consistent with all experiments, it remains just as
viable as SR as a model for the relativity of motion. It follows that
the falsification of the SR interpretation in favor of the LR
interpretation has no immediate mathematical consequences for GR. The
main physical consequence is negation of the proof that
faster-than-light propagation is impossible"

[[-]](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/225711498_Experimental_Repeal_of_the_Speed_Limit_for_Gravitational_Electrodynamic_and_Quantum_Field_Interactions)

---

As Chomsky [said](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/08/opinion/noam-chomsky-chatgpt-ai.html)
these things are "lumbering statistical engine[s]" for pattern
matching which "gorg[e] on hundreds of terabytes of data and
extrapolating the most likely conversational response or most probable
answer to a scientific question". They are not efficient. So it should
be no surprise some found ways of optimizing it. But the optimization
is like optimizing an hammer that constantly, wrogly seeks nails to
hit, in other words a better wrong tool for a misanalyzed problem.

---

Chollet: "o1 does represent a paradigm shift from 'memorize the
answers' to 'memorize the reasoning', but is not a departure from the
broader paradigm of improving model accuracy by putting more things
into the pre-training distribution"

---

Same as o1..? o1 itself was not good enough.. And even o3 will likely
fall short of the new ARC 2 test. 

---

Nature: "DeepSeek-R1 performs reasoning tasks at the same level as
OpenAI’s o1..  DeepSeek emerged from relative obscurity last month
when it released a chatbot called V3, which outperformed major rivals,
despite being built on a shoestring budget. Experts estimate that it
cost around $6 million to rent the hardware needed to train the model,
compared with upwards of 60 million dollar for Meta’s Llama 3.1 405B,
which used 11 times the computing resources"

---

Politico: "Secretary of State Marco Rubio halted spending Friday on
most existing foreign aid grants for 90 days. The order, which shocked
State Department officials, appears to apply to funding for military
assistance to Ukraine"

---

Here's a simple rule - do not use lithium-ion tech.

This plant was seperate from the wildfires BTW, the shit just ignited,
and turned into hellfire. 

LA Times: "‘Horrifying’ fire at California lithium battery plant
sparks calls for new clean energy rules"

---

Carbon Credits: "Vistra Fire and Teslas Burning in California: Is it a
Wake-Up Call for Battery Storage Safety?"

---

Lithium-ion batteries likely contributed to the spread of LA
wildfires..  if they burn longer and almost impossible to put out,
they would contribute to the spread more than any other material.

---

VICE: "Burning EV Batteries Are Delaying LA Wildfire Clean-Up...
lithium-ion batteries.. have complicated the fight against LA
wildfires. When those batteries catch fire, they become a raging
inferno nearly impossible to put out. A Tesla-related car accident
back in 2018 is a tragic example of this. The car crashed, bursting
into flames and killing everyone inside. It took emergency responders
almost 300 gallons of water and foam to extinguish the fire. After
everyone thought the blaze was subdued, responders were loading the
Tesla for removal when the battery ignited again, entirely on its
own. The fires are so intense and difficult to combat that a common
tactic for battling them is to not battle them at all — just let them
burn until there’s nothing left.

---

Bloomberg: "Burning Teslas in LA Add to Toxic Mix Hindering Wildfire
Cleanup.. As the smoke clears from devastating Los Angeles wildfires,
efforts to clean up the affected areas are being complicated by
burnt-out electric and hybrid vehicles and home-battery storage
systems.

Lithium batteries from Tesla Inc., along with those from other
carmakers, have added to the mix of toxic materials requiring
specialized removal in the wake of the fires, delaying the fire
victims’ return to their properties.

'A lot of the cars in the evacuation area were lithium batteries,'
said Jacqui Irwin, a state assembly member representing the Pacific
Palisades, one of the neighborhoods hardest hit by the fires. 'We’ve
heard from firefighters that those lithium batteries burned fires near
homes – like those with power walls – for much longer.'.. Fires in
lithium batteries can require large amounts of water to put out"

---

Wendell Pierce is the new Perry White. I have to see this.

---

The National: "In a statement marking the one-year anniversary of the
ICJ saying that Palestinians’ right to be protected from genocide
faced a 'plausible' risk from Israel, Amnesty International said the
UK Government had 'contributed to Israel’s impunity and risked British
complicity in serious crimes against international law'"

---

Section 31 was not part of Roddenberry canon, it was added later,
during the Deep Space Nine era where the storylines also displayed
frequent usage of munee, capitalist Ferrengi were normalized, and
other weirdo shit was there... DS9 is the worst of the bunch IMO until
its record was beaten by ST Discovery.

---

\#Burr \#Kimmel

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/r7wcU4W4tDE?start=160&end=177)

---

There is no deep state in US today

---

\#FreeLuigi

---

The movie is about "Section 31" the deep state of the
Federation. Today's corporate power via their movies would rather have
you think about a futuristic deep state which evokes images of
bureucratic opression, this way you fear government structures
*today*, with that fear tell the gov not to tax the rich (anything gov
does is bad), and the current privatized dystopia, a fascistic
corporate control mechanisms continue. Thankfully the movie sucks so
it will likely create the opposite effect.

---

Critic: "The only thing Star Trek about this [movie] is some of the
names of the alien races, a few references here and there, and some
familiar sound effects. There's no boldly going anywhere here, there's
no interesting sci-fi concept, no highbrow ideas, no moral or ethical
dilemma, no intelligent plot, no exploration, no optimism, and no
hope. It's bland, bleak, dark, joyless, and dreadful"


---

One of those degenerate ones... Jar Jar Ibrahim / Kurtzman
type.  The reviews aren't good.

---

There is a new Trek movie?

---

No Shit

Paper: "In this paper our aim is to show that an increase in wealth
inequality is associated with a slowdown in economic growth"

[[-]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003801212400003X)

---

Sriskandarajah, LSE: "The rest is not just politics: how inequality is
trumping democracy.. In essence, the exponential accumulation of
wealth and power by the 'private few' reduces the capacity of the
'public many' to exercise the freedom to make the choices that shape
our lives. The promise that each of us in a democracy has an equal
vote and equal say in how our society functions then begins to ring
hollow.

Those earning less than a minimum wage are the least likely to be
civically engaged... inequality lowers an individual’s sense of trust
in others: not in family or friends but in unspecified persons. Again,
this kind of generalised trust is a core component of social
capital. We tend to have less trust in people who are dissimilar to
us, which might explain the striking correlation observed in countries
like the US between an increase in income inequality and a sharp
decline in trust.

Central to neoliberalism is the push to shrink the size of the state –
to see little or no need for social security provisions or any other
transfers of resources from richer to poorer groups of
society. Neoliberals are steadfastly against such
'redistribution'. But a study by the non-partisan RAND Corporation
found an eye-watering level of redistribution in the US in the period
between 1975 and 2018 – just not in the direction that progressives
were calling for. During this era in which Reagonomics and neoliberal
policies were let loose, the bottom 90 per cent of America’s income
earners saw a hit to their combined incomes of $2.5 trillion each year
relative to the case where their incomes had grown in line with the
average(per capita) income trend for the country as a whole over this
period"

---

\#Davis \#Baud \#Ukraine

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/TnSD3l5Bbfc?start=1063&end=1324)

---

Doom CAPTCHA

[[-]](https://doom-captcha.vercel.app/)

---

RR's acting took a dive after he became a bidnessman.. it's a
long-running sarcastic shtick now rather than anything of substance.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/j_6bscCG7OA?t=813)

---

The wife is one of those "entrepreneurial" stars too apparently. When
these people are on screen you are not sure whether they are selling
products to make a movie, or making a movie to sell a product.

---

Guy felt up Ryan Reynold's wife, RR is jealous trying to cancel him? 🤣

---

It is supposed to be 1 person 1 vote. Thanks to inequality now it is
"1 dollar 1 vote".

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU - 01/19 - 01/26

[[-]](ukrdata/map04.html)

---
