# Week 21

Doctorow: "[A]n unwillingness to tax creates all kinds of evils. For
starters, if a state can’t fund its core programs out of tax, it has
to borrow. And when it borrows, it borrows from the rich. So instead
of taxation — which weakens the fortunes and political influence of
the wealthy — we get bonds, through which the wealthy are paid
interest out of the funds extracted from those who lack the political
clout to escape taxation"

---

Richardson: "[T]he center of the [megabill].. is the $3.8 trillion
extension of Trump’s 2017 tax cuts, which disproportionately benefit
the wealthy and corporations. Yesterday the nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office said that Americans in the lowest tenth of earners will
lose money under the measure while people in the top five percent of
earners will see a tax cut of 117.2 billion, more than 20% of the tax
cuts in the bill.

Poorer Americans take a hit from the bill because it cuts federal
healthcare and food assistance programs to partially offset the costs
of the tax cuts. Cuts to Medicaid are expected to leave at least 9
million people without healthcare coverage. Cuts of about 30% to the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program would be 'the biggest cut in
the program’s history,' Ty Jones Cox, vice president for food
assistance policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, told
Lorie Konish of CNBC. They would cut about $300 billion from the
program through 2034. More than 40 million people, including children,
seniors, and adults with disabilities, receive food assistance.

Yesterday the CBO reported that the measure will add $2.3 trillion to
the deficit over ten years, and noted that when a budget adds too much
to the federal deficit, it triggers cuts to Medicare (not a typo)
under the Pay-As-You-Go law. The CBO explains that those cuts are
limited by law to 4% but would still total about 490 billion from 2027
through 2034.

Tobias Burns of The Hill summed it up: 'Republicans’ tax-and-spending
cut bill will take from the poor and give to the rich, Congress’s
official scoring body has found.'"

---

Crazy thought - Europe wants current Ukraine admin's ass kicked, once
and for all, to rid themselves of them and the pesky US influence in
the region. They are fine with extended Russian influence in Ukraine,
so they help prolonging current state of conflict by asking Ukraine
"not to give up"

---

Zero-sum is strategically stupid for US.. it doesn't benefit them.
But it benefits certain someone(s).. Conflict is in their interest.
Who?

---

You could make the case Russia had an hand in disrupting Sudan
too... But the West turns everything into such a zero-sum game that
everyone needs to mobilize to the hilt just to survive. It leads "the
other side" to be more agressive.

---

There is a nice little potential RU transit block from Medi to the
Atlantic via Libya-Niger-Mali/Burkino Faso-Guinea.

---

African Support for Russia and China, map is now dynamic, HTML based,

[[-]](../../2022/12/ru-ch-africa.html)

---

"@existentialcomics@mastodon.social

Capitalism didn't give us the internet... Large-scale cooperation [via
open source approaches], open protocols, and free software gave us the
internet. Capitalism gave us mobile sites that don't work because
fifteen ads cover the screen"

---

Politico: "RFK Jr.’s big report is coming. The GOP’s farm and food
allies are sweating."

---

TDB: "Lawmaker Says Trump Is ‘Literally Yelling’ at Republicans to
Make Them Fall in Line.. A Democratic lawmaker said the tense standoff
over Donald Trump’s signature bill has given him flashbacks to how the
president used to whip Republican lawmakers into submission.In a
Wednesday night interview with MSNBC’s Chris Hayes, Philadelphia
Rep. Brendan Boyle said he has witnessed 'time and again' how House
Republicans would indicate that they are voting against a bill, until
'suddenly they get a tap on the shoulder.. They’re dragged out of the
House floor and back into the Republican members’ cloak room, and
they’re handed a cell phone, and it’s Donald Trump literally yelling
at them and cursing at them,' he said"

---

Politico: "[Megabill] reflects the current tension in the GOP over
keeping old guard Republicans, business interests and Wall Street
donors happy even as Trump challenges other elements of party
orthodoxy... The domestic policy package under consideration in the
House contains a handful of..  concessions like increases to the child
tax credit, the establishment of $1,000 'MAGA' savings accounts for
kids and carveouts for taxes on tips that Trump promised during the
campaign"

---

Sometimes I wish US were an empire. If it were, that concept is
familiar to the rest of the world, they could handle things better.
The current scheme is far from it, a mixture of McDonalds like
franchise-ism, chaos instigation and disinterest, short
interventionism followed by regret. US businesses screw the world
while its bureucratic structures sit idly by doing nothing or enable
the destruction.

---

What happened three weeks ago, where the graph started to turn? Was it
the cabinet farewell of e-douche?

---

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/550/022/044/274/457/original/75bf6e38e1c0e23d.jpg'/>

---

"Britain, France and Canada threaten Israel with Concrete Sanctions if
Gaza War is not Halted"

---

Al Jazeera: "Israel kills 93 in Gaza, shots fired towards diplomats in
West Bank"

---

NYT: "China’s Fighter Jets and Missiles Get a Boost From the
India-Pakistan Clash'

---

This will go on for another few months, per earlier estimate. I don't
expect any breakthroughs before Sep.

NYT: "Ukrainians Brace for a Longer War as Trump Backs Off Cease-Fire
Call.. President Trump appears to be stepping back from trying to end
the war in Ukraine. Many in the country see little choice but to
battle on"

---

Politico: "Wealthy gain, low-income people lose from GOP megabill,
analysis finds.. The report by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget
Office is already fueling Democratic accusations that the legislation
is a giveaway to the rich."

---

Zuckerberg is Thy Me.. Mrs Ryan Reynolds, bitch is TM.

See the Sarah Wynn-Williams book story has Zuck wanting to be "gently
mobbed". That would be a form of getting affirming attention. But Zuck
is doing ok overall. I've seen worse.

---

TM is prone to tit-for-tat cycles. A constant seeking of "to be
treated fairly" gnaws on them whatever that means in their
brains... 

---

Notice how hard Netan fought to get back in the game after his 2021
loss. TM's sense of self can get tied to a position, a profession
(where they are noticed), a loss like that is like a mental death
sentence of sorts, their identity is *erased* in their minds once the
position is lost.

---

Netanyahoo is *Thy Me* - they have identity issues, their sense of
self is weak. They rely on constant affirmation from outside to feel
seperate. Odd ducks.. Since being "seen", noticed helps them feel
their identity, they can do most inane stupid shit to stand out.

---

Michael Douglas is Control Freak \#Profile. Now I see why the story of
*The Game* would be compelling to him, in the movie bunch of stuff is
done to his character, he 'loses control'.. A CF would like that
subconsiously, they need it in a way.

[[-]](../../2024/03/types.html)

---
Cancer results from repressed anger. JB had a lot to be angry about,
sure. Gotta let go Biden.

---

The Verge: "[2021] Apple cares about privacy, unless you work at
Apple.. [There is] a growing tension inside Apple, where some
employees say the company isn’t doing enough to protect their personal
privacy and, at times, actively seeks to invade it for security
reasons. Employees have been asked to install software builds on their
phones to test out new features prior to launch — only to find the
builds expose their personal messages. Others have found that when
testing new products like Apple’s Face ID, images are recorded every
time they open their phones"

---

Spanish PM: "Israel Should Be Eliminated from Eurovision.. Sanchez
called Israel a 'genocidal state' during his speech in the Spanish
parliament on Wednesday, stating that Madrid 'does not do business'
with such a country"

---

H2 Central: "Japan backs hydrogen-powered commercial vehicles with major subsidies"

---

:) That wld be hilarious.. From the guy who got the Tony Blair dress
down (remember the scene, TB starts with 'there are three groups of
people...' and just bashes away) to this.

The Independent: "Nigel Farage: 'I will be Tory leader by 2026'"

---

Boris J gave an interview to GBN, sitting next to UK flag some took
that to mean he will run for PM again. Why not? Trump and him were out
after covid (BJ held on little more but, anyway), well DJT is back,
maybe he can too? Current con leader is a lightweight, there is a
giant hole in the right which Farage is too happy to fill. That cld be
opportunity for BJ.

---

Good news.. Rejoin EU at some point

NYT: "UK and EU Strike Post-Brexit ‘Reset’ Deal"

---

TAC: "Cut Israel Off—for Its Own Sake"

[[-]](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/cut-israel-off-for-its-own-sake/)

---

Politico: "Netanyahu blasts Starmer, Macron and Carney over Israel
sanctions threat"

---

Al-Monitor: "France 'determined' to recognise Palestinian state: foreign minister"

---

NYT: "Israel Wavers as Far Right and Military Disagree on Gaza Strategy"

---

TASS: "Talks on resolving conflict in Gaza have not led anywhere yet —
Qatari PM.. pointed out that there was a fundamental gap between the
two parties"

---

Masse: "[T]he quantum exists because aether cannot support nonlinear
elasticity. Since the maximum amplitude of a wave propagating in
aether is fixed, the frequency of the wave must correspond to (be
proportional to) the energy $\mathcal{E}$... Physical properties of
aether then explain why higher energy light waves take the form of
quanta and always have the same distinct sinusoidal amplitude for a
given frequency.  A photon is therefore a monochromatic,
finite-length, constant-amplitude, transverse sinusoidal wave train in
aether having a single frequency $v$ and quantized energy
$\mathcal{E}$ given by $\mathcal{E} = hv$. All photons have the same
distinct constant amplitude. Each photon is characterized, therefore,
not by its amplitude, but by its frequency"

---

If the basis quant computation (QM) is false there is no inherent
parallelization to be exploited, QC folk are barking up the wrong
tree.

In a foundational sense, QC being bunk strengthens the case of
deterministic foundation of QM, Robert P Masse's work comes to
mind. There is no wave/particle duality, light is a wave, a real,
physical one which travels through tightly-packed aether particles.

---

"@lonestartallboi.bsky.social

20 years ago we were suing teenagers for millions of dollars because
they were torrenting a single Metallica album, and now billionaires
are demanding the free right to every work in history, so that they
can resell it.

The law only ever serves capital"

---

The Guardian: "'Impossible' to create AI tools like ChatGPT without copyrighted
material, OpenAI says"

---

*Zero Day* has some great lines.. One billionaire mogul rapacious
capitalist type investigated for fraud, says on TV:

"It was the great Benjamin Franklin who said those who would give up
essential freedom to purchase temporary safety deserve neither freedom
nor safety"..

Later De Niro's character (former prez, leads a gov investigation)
meets this person,

"By the way, the Franklin quote? I think you got it wrong.. It's
'liberty' we shouldn't sacrifice for safety. Not 'freedom.'"

Mogul: What's the difference?

RDN: "'Freedom' is what allows people like you to do whatever you
want. 'Liberty' is what protects the rest of us from people like you"

---

Prez Traore of B. Faso is good friends with Russia. Traore is like an
earlier president, Thomas Sankara, a legend in Africa. And of course
BF is attacked by Al Qaeda likely bcz their angle does not match with
US MIC corporate interests, whose tools must be funding, egging them
on to harm Burkino Faso. It's easy to do, flood the region w/ cash,
jihadis will follow. This is the Syria playbook.

---

AJ: "Al-Qaeda affiliate claims 200 soldiers killed in Burkina Faso
attack"

---

"Leading Quantum Computing Firm Accused of Fraud" \#DWave

[[-]](https://www.youtube.com/embed/HblctmviS98?end=196)

---

Same task for article below, one of the answers was "Ukraine |
Attacked | Oleshky". Oleshky?? That place isn't even mentioned in the
article.

[[-]](https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2025/04/01/ukrainian-drone-attacks-injure-15-in-occupied-donetsk-region-a88553)

---

Asked Gemini to summarize news item below in an Actor | Attacked |
Actor format. One of the answers was "Houthi rebels | Attacked | US
MQ-9 drone". I had specifically asked it to identify countries, group
of people, organizations as actors. LLMs lack categorizations,
generalization ability.

[[-]](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2025/4/1/fresh-us-strikes-extend-air-campaign-targeting-yemens-houthis)

---

Sad

---

Masse, *Quantum Mechanics*: "Following the discovery of the Compton
effect.. light was considered to have both wave and particle
characteristics, and light quanta became known as photons . The
paradox of the wave-particle duality of light thus arose in
physics. To make matters even worse, the corpuscular quantum of
radiation is defined in terms of frequency, a wave attribute. Or, as
was noted by Jammer (1966), '*a hypothesis supported by incontestable
experimental evidence, became physically significant only by the use
of its own negation*'"

---

"Violent clashes between SDF [Kurds] and ISIS militants in the town of
Abu Hamam, Deir ez-zor countryside"

---

Informed Comment: "Libyan Gov’t Decries Fake News about Taking 1
mn. Palestinian Refugees"

---

*Zero Day*, watchable, not bad

---

MCU's string of fuck ups might have finally caught up with it
too.. You can keep releasing average work only for so long before the
audience catches up with you.

---

People who went seem to like it (I still did not get around to it
myself).. Story was probably ok, cinematog, fine.. But it probably
wasn't grandiose, a spectacle enough to generate the word-of-mouth for
the attention to spread. The characters are mostly unknown, most from
the *Black Widow* movie that flopped, some tiny woman not cut for the
big screen (the *Seinfeld* person... basically TV, zero big screen
presence), and a Captain America copy after another copy flopped. TB
has a chubbier less attractive Widow. The movie seems to tread old
territory - a visit to the Stark Tower?  Nothing says derivative like
a visit to an old, well-known set.

---

TB will likely flop

---

Freaking Ant-Man had better opening

```python
u.boxofficemojo("Ant-Man Quantumania")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Domestic Opening': '$106,109,650',
 'Domestic': '$214,504,909',
 'International': '$261,566,271',
 'Worldwide Total': '$476,071,180'}
```

---

Opening was not good.. 

```python
u.boxofficemojo("Thunderbolts")
```

```text
Out[1]: 
{'Domestic Opening': '$74,300,608',
 'Domestic': '$143,166,643',
 'International': '$143,556,738',
 'Worldwide Total': '$286,723,381'}
```

---

The Lever: "New financial disclosures reveal that new Social Security
Commissioner Frank Bisignano won an indefinite tax break on an
estimated $484 million windfall."

---

The American Conservative: "The Istanbul Talks Were a Success.. the
Russia–Ukraine meeting was a promising step toward an end to the war."

---

\#Ukraine 05/11 - 05/18

[[-]](ukrdata/map20.html)

---

Billy Graham: "[O]ur work was never meant to become the center of our
lives. That place belongs only to God, and when we allow our work to
dominate and control us, then it has become an idol to us — and that
is wrong. Someone who brags about working seventy or eighty hours (or
more) a week probably thinks he is the master of his job — but in
reality he has become its slave. In addition, because his life is so
wrapped up in work, his identity or sense of self-worth — that is, his
understanding of his value or significance as a person — often comes
to depend on his ability to work. Unfortunately our materialistic
society only reinforces this view. But God says you are greater than
your work, and your work is only a part of His plan for you."

---

