# Week 10

Tokyo University of Science: "Breakthrough in Clean Energy: Palladium
Nanosheets Pave Way for Affordable Hydrogen.. Scientists develop a
low-cost palladium-based nanosheet catalyst that matches platinum's
performance in hydrogen production"

<img width='340' src='https://www.tus.ac.jp/en/mediarelations/20250227_9565_01.jpg'/>

---

Toxic - The Bosshoss \#music

[[-]](https://youtu.be/l0rm73Zjd3o)

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

I suspect that BYD, as well as every other high-flying BEV focused
company, is losing money. Such acts are a secret way to prop up the
story"

---

SCMP: "BYD shares nosedive after US$5.6 billion placement
announcement"

---

TASS: "Russian artillery crews wipe out Ukrainian stronghold near Chasov Yar"

---

The Hindu: "Tata Motors begins trials of hydrogen-powered heavy duty
trucks for long haul transportation.. The trucks, equipped with
Hydrogen Internal Combustion Engines and Fuel Cell technologies, will
be tested on India's most prominent freight routes, including those
around Mumbai, Pune, Delhi-NCR, Surat, Vadodara, Jamshedpur and
Kalinganagar"

---

Why do people hold treasuries instead of being in cash, like Warren
Buffett does even in hundreds of billions? Government bonds are low
risk instruments, they produce some returns, but they are liquid which
means they can be bought and sold at ease, there is always a market
for them. Therefore they are as good as cash, little better actually,
since they provide some interest.

---

TASS: "Three Palestinians wounded during Israel’s raids in West Bank"

---

Arab News: "Russia ‘categorically’ against deploying European troops
to Ukraine, Russian senior diplomat says"

---

Firstpost: "At Chatham House, [Indian FM] Jaishankar says most of
Kashmir issue is 'solved'"

---

It looks like RU sanctions are mostly in executive branch's
control. What was done via exec action can be undone via exec
action. Unless.. Congress passes veto-proof sanctions law. 

"The President’s Extraordinary Sanctions Power.. In the United States,
most sanctions are imposed under the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (IEEPA)... The statute.. spoke in sweeping terms: the
president may 'investigate…, regulate, direct and compel, nullify,
void, prevent or prohibit, any acquisition, holding, withholding, use,
transfer, withdrawal, transportation, importation or exportation' of
property 'in which any foreign country or a national thereof has any
interest.' All that’s required to unlock those extraordinary powers is
a presidential declaration of a 'national emergency' based on an
'unusual and extraordinary threat' ato the national security, foreign
policy, or economy of the United States"

---

Reuters: "White House seeks plan for possible Russia sanctions relief,
sources say"

---

See how the graph shoots up after 70s.. that's f-ing neoliberalism
right there... It needed access to compliant, cheap workers at home
and abroad, and it got'em. Business interests trumped national
interests.

---

The only time the percentage has fallen in decades is during DJT first
term.

---

```python
dfp = u.get_fred(2000,['POPTHM'])
dff = pd.read_csv('foreignb.csv',parse_dates=True,index_col='DATE')
df = dff.join(dfp, how='left').interpolate(method='bfill')
df['perc'] = (df.Count/10) / df.POPTHM 
df.perc.plot(grid='on',title='Percentage of Foreign-Born in US')
plt.axvline('2017-01-01', color='y')
plt.axvline('2021-01-01', color='y')
```

<img width='340' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/102/945/574/359/690/original/11aec9639884af67.jpg'/>

---

NYT: "On Mexico’s Once-Packed Border, Few Migrants Remain"

---

Masse: "[Quantum action-at-a-distance] experiments performed using
Bell’s test have generally used photons as the ‘particles’ and the
polarization of photons as the discrete parameter. Photons are
transverse waves, however, and not particles. Since the waves are
split by the polarizer, the emerging waves are generally not
photons. Their energy is no longer defined by their frequency. It is
not clear that all factors influencing the results of Bell’s test have
been fully understood as yet"

---

UK had a mineral deal too? The interesting quesion is, is US screwing
them out of their mineral deal?

"[2025/01/16] The UK and Ukraine will sign a historic partnership, as
the Prime Minister travels to the country to meet President
Zelenskyy... Treaty will bolster military collaboration on maritime
security through a new framework to strengthen Baltic Sea, Black Sea,
and Azov Sea security and deter ongoing Russian aggression..

*It also cements the UK as a preferred partner for Ukraine’s energy
sector, critical minerals strategy and green steel production*
[emphasis mine] "

---

NBC News: "[2013] Pope Francis attacks 'tyranny' of unfettered
capitalism, 'idolatry of money'"

---

I wish him well.. He was right on many things.

"Pope Francis back on ventilator amid health setback"

---

"@Hypx@mastodon.social

Recently, I've noticed that BEV puffery is all but dead. Almost no one
in the car industry is still cheering on the 'inevitable' rise of
BEVs. It's mostly just a sense of dread. It mirrors the path ethanol
took, just before we abandoned it. Likely, the focus will shift
towards hydrogen cars soon"

---

\#Frontline \#UA \#RU 02/27 - 03/04

[[-]](mbl/2025/ukrdata/map10.html)

---

"@bert_hubert

So I didn't know, but Europe already has a backup of PubMed, the
database of biomedical research publications. The US PubMed broke down
over the weekend. And here is our alternative: https://europepmc.org "

---

The Druze are an interesting minority. There are some references to
them in the fictional novel *Op-Center: Acts of War*, the series
published under Tom Clancy brand. Clancy always had good IR material
in his books.

---

Theories abound in the region right now.. Everyone has a scenerio,
ranging from bad to apocalyptic. 

---

"[A] proposed [Israeli] corridor would be a passage that begins in the
occupied Syrian Golan Heights and extends through Syria to reach the
Euphrates where Kurds, supported by the United States, control all
areas in the east of the Euphrates, including all regions on the
Syrian-Iraqi border. Although it is not clear where exactly Israel
would build this corridor.. reports.. indicate that the proposed
corridor would go in the south of Syria, close to the Jordanian
borders, allowing Israel to control the land between the corridor and
the Jordanian borders.. [the hope is making] Israel politically
resilient to external military challenges emanating from neighbouring
countries through providing Israel with the leverage of using
minorities in Syria such as the Druze and Kurds as proxies"

<img width='200' src='https://cdn.fosstodon.org/media_attachments/files/114/097/943/909/527/340/original/b7bdfbdc6f2efa4d.png'/>

---

"Fresh clashes south of Damascus between local Druze and government
forces suggest the community may be laying groundwork for a
semi-autonomous or fully independent non-Islamic statelet before
Damascus manages to create a new government. Amid clashes in Jaramana
and Israeli military positioning, the latest movements since the fall
of the Assad regime in the area earlier in December could spell the
first post-war challenge for the [new] in Damascus, which has so far
attempted to avoid the topic of Israeli encroachment in its territory.

<img width='200' src='https://d39raawggeifpx.cloudfront.net/media/GlCzovLXwAAn2cj.jpeg'/>

The Arab Druze, roughly 3% of Syria's population, have historically
balanced loyalty to local powers with a commitment to
self-preservation. The fall of Assad's regime in December 2024 created
both opportunity and uncertainty, particularly for those in southern
Syria. Now, with Israel vowing to "protect" them and reports of Druze
militias clashing with Syrian Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) forces, a new
political entity could emerge under Israel's influence"

---

F24: "Clashes between Syrian forces and Druze gunmen turn deadly.. One
person was killed and nine others wounded in clashes near Damascus
between forces affiliated to Syria's new rulers and gunmen from the
minority Druze community on Saturday"

---

CNBC: "China ‘firmly rejects’ additional U.S. tariffs, says it will
implement countermeasures"

---

Politico: "Trump halts military aid to Ukraine.. The minerals deal is
still on the table. So are deals with Russia"

---

Masse, *Quantum Mechanics*: "Two Slits Open for a Single Photon.. In
such an experiment, a single photon from the light source will still
be incident on both slits in the aperture screen at the same time, and
will produce two coherent sinusoidal wavelets that interfere
constructively and destructively.  Each of these sinusoidal wavelets
will have less energy than a photon of the same frequency, and so the
wavelets will not be photons. Moreover, the energy of the two
sinusoidal wavelets will generally not be equal.

When the sinusoidal wavelets reach the image screen, the destructively
interfering parts of the sinusoidal wavelets will have significantly
less energy than a photon of the same frequency, and so will be unable
to produce an observable photographic or photoelectric effect. Dark
fringes will result.  Only the constructively interfering parts of the
sinusoidal wavelets will have sufficient energy (approximately the
energy of a photon of the same frequency) to produce an observable
photographic or photoelectric effect that will contribute to forming
bright fringes on the image screen. Moreover, a constructively
interfering part of the sinusoidal wavelet must strike an atom on the
image screen just right to provide sufficient energy for the atom to
change state and eject a single electron.

Out of hundreds of interfering parts of the two wavelets, only one
pair will generally produce any observable effect. This effect will
usually be isolated to a single atom on the image screen. Therefore,
the constructively interfering wavelets will appear to be very
localized (at a point) similar to a single particle striking the image
screen. Nevertheless, the change occurring in an atom of the image
screen in a low-intensity experiment is due to constructively
interfering sinusoidal wavelets; not to a particle"

---

Masse says light is a wave, not wave and particle at the same time.
People who keep looking for magical funkiness in QM forget basic facts
about waves, they have to lose energy when they pass through the slits
and split, the two new waves are syncronized but have different travel
times towards the screen, therefore they can interfere with each other
constructively or destructively. And since the two waves have less
energy only perfect contructive interference will result in a bright
image on the screen. In a single photon two-slit experiment that can
give the impression of a "particle" traveling both slits. The
explanation can really be that simple. You have to be dumber to look
for something more complex and "magical".

---

RU's supposed involvement in that case is wholly debunked. But I bet
some fools still believe it. You know the type, blue-no-matter-who
shitlib economic-right-social-left dumb Clintonites.

---

We see another case of Russia Russia Russia, see the Hunter Biden
laptop reference below.

---

BL and VW must be feeling the heat.

Variety: "Blake Lively has hired a PR crisis manager with deep
government ties.. Nick Shapiro [was] the CIA’s former deputy chief of
staff and senior advisor to former director John Brennan... Shapiro is
not without controversy. He was one of a group of 51 former senior
intelligence officials who signed the widely cited and subsequently
criticized 2020 open letter stating that the Hunter Biden laptop 'has
all the classic earmarks of a Russian information operation'"

---

News 12: "Hoboken passes new ordinance concerning lithium-ion battery
storage..  These new rules directly target owners of e-bikes and
scooters... but the batteries can also be a major fire
hazard...[Official] explained this new ordinance pertains to the
storage of batteries within a property housing three or more
units. Starting March 11, it will be illegal to charge a lithium-ion
battery in a common area. This includes no basements, lobbies or
hallways... In New York City, the FDNY says lithium-ion batteries
caused 277 fires in 2024"

---

Politico: "Andrew Cuomo launches comeback bid for New York City mayor"

---

"Hybrit’s pilot project for hydrogen gas storage has now been
completed and reported to the Swedish Energy Agency. The results show
that it is technically possible to store fossil-free hydrogen gas for
producing fossil-free iron and steel on an industrial scale. This can
also reduce the variable operating costs of hydrogen production by up
to 40 per cent"

---

Kick Buttowski. An actual cartoon character.

---

The Hill: "71 percent of Trump voters oppose Medicaid cuts: Poll"

---

I never said there are no deep state structures in other countries. I
said *US* doesn't have one.

---

I feel sorry for people whose homeworks were truly eaten by a dog.
You can tell what happened but now noone would believe you.

---

😂 This deep state business is the new "the dog ate my homework".

The Independent: "[T]he [Epstein] files failed to yield major new
findings and featured some information that was already public.
[Loomer] wrote '1 week ago, @PamBondi said "the Epstein files are on
my desk". Now she’s claiming the 'deep state' set her up"

---

I do not have knee-jerk reaction to all coins. I heard good things
about Cardano.

A fast, minimal energy crypto with redistribution features built-in
can be a useful future currency.

---

If US backs these coins, their liquidity will increase, helping them
become international currencies on par with USD. The difference is
said coins are not strictly controlled by US, so their promotion will
help foreign countries to transact, bypassing US. Russia will benefit.

---

Crypto News: "XRP, ADA Skyrocket as Trump Says Strategic Reserve to
Include Bitcoin, Ether, Solana, XRP and Cardano"

---

A rough timeline of West-Nato / Russia relations... The Western media
is adept at making people ignore, forget the context on everything via
a process called decontextualization. We need to look at only the
last, or a single chosen "bad act" done by a "bad actor", so that
actor can be properly villified. Such an angle helps their bottom line
justifying all arms spending enriching the military-media private
complex. Some of that hidden context is below. NATO keeps expanding,
year after year, 1994, 1999, 2004, 2009, 2017, 2020, 2024 at the
discomfort of Russia.  A military alliance that insists on keeping you
out encroaches on your border. 

[[-]](../../2025/03/nato-russia-timeline.html)
