# Ottomans, Armenians, Kurds

*A modern history of the Kurds*, David McDowall

[T]he battle of Chaldiran effectively established a strategic point of
balance between Ottoman Anatolia and Safavid Azarbaijan, and this in
the longer term created the conditions for Kurdistan to enjoy a period
of relative stability. Although both Ottoman and Safavid sought, and
sometimes successfully, to shift the boundary in their respective
favour, the border reverted to the approximate line ..

These events had a vital impact on Kurdistan, which now became the
border march between the two empires. Each empire had to weigh up how
far it could extend its control into the border marches, while Kurdish
chiefs had the unenviable task of choosing which empire it was wisest
to recognize, balancing a desire for maximal freedom from government
interference against the local benefit of formal state endorsement of
their authority.

Following his initial conquest of Kurdistan, the majority of chiefs
recognized Shah Ismail, but probably with as little enthusiasm
... Chaldiran apart, there were a number of reasons why many Kurdish
chiefs renounced Safavid suzerainty ... For the ruling Kurdish
families there was a more practical consideration: Shah Ismail's
intention was to govern through Turkoman or Persian administrators
those areas of Kurdistan under his control, whereas the Ottomans
relied on local chiefs [pg 26-27] ..


[Selim] also faced two interconnected problems with regard to the
newly acquired border marches: there was a danger of Safavid
subversion or invasion, and the application of direct administration
and taxation in the region would be extremely difficult and probably
counterproductive. As a result, Sultan Salim opted for pragmatism
rather than the brutal ruthlessness for which he was better known. He
did so on the advice of a Kurd, Idris Bitlisi, a man of considerable
political judgement. ... Bitlisi persuaded Sultan Salim to give him a
free hand to win over the Kurdish princes and chiefs. Equipped with
blank *fermans*, or decrees, Bitlisi reinstated rulers dismissed by
Shah Ismail, and confirmed certain chiefs in semi- or virtual
independence in return for their acknowledgement of nominal Ottoman
suzerainty. ...

The relationship between Istanbul and its Kurdish satraps was far from
perfect.  Because the system of semi-independent principalities lasted
well into the nineteenth century, it is tempting to consider it a
successful political arrangement. In practice neither side was
satisfied. Both Istanbul and individual chiefs pushed for greater
control whenever they thought they had the power to achieve it. In
that sense the arrangements achieved by Bitlisi were understood to be
a pragmatic recognition of the balance of forces at that time, a
balance in which the chiefs benefited from official recognition [pg
30].

By the end of the eighteenth century the Ottomans faced a severe
crisis, that of a highly centralized empire that had lost control of
its hinterland. The arrangements reached between tribe and state
following Chaldiran had long since lost their value for Istanbul and
finally foundered in the first half of the nineteenth century. As
described in the preceding chapter, efforts to curtail the power of
the amirs and chiefs of Kurdistan had been made intermittently by both
state and regional authorities during the preceding three
centuries. There had been phases of imperial progress, but the Kurds
had usually managed to claw back their independence for a variety of
reasons. By the end of the eighteenth century it was easy for the
amirs and tribal chiefs to believe they had no need for an external
sponsor. Their destruction during the next half century was a powerful
reminder that leadership could not easily be maintained if the role of
intermediary between state and subordinate tribal groupings ceased [pg
38]. ...

The suppression of the old amirates and other semi-independent satraps
of Kurdistan led to less law and order in the countryside, not
more. This may seem surprising, since if the Porte had the military
power to suppress the amirs and chiefs it presumably could also
suppress anyone else. However, while the Kurdish paramounts
indubitably were responsible for major upheavals, conflicts and
bloodshed in the region, they were also part of the regional balance
of forces.

While eager to aggrandize themselves, they were also vital mediators
between the tribes and tribal sections within their territory, and
between these and the outside world. Without them, unrestrained
inter-tribal conflicts arose all over Kurdistan, with both political
and economic consequences.

While the Ottoman authorities were able to govern towns and their
immediate environs, they were unable to exert control further afield
except by reprisal. Such expeditions were an insufficient response to
the challenge now posed. The absence of adequate restraint led to
repeated fights between one tribe and another, to increased banditry
and to a serious decline in the economic condition of the country [pg
49] ...

<a name='hamidiya'/>

In 1891 Sultan Abd al Hamid authorized the establishment of an
irregular mounted force in eastern Anatolia, designating it after
himself, the Hamidiya Cavalry. The intention was to imitate the
Russian Cossack regiments which had been used so effectively as scouts
and skirmishers in the Caucasus. 

Given the social context of the region, the Hamidiya was raised from
selected Sunni Kurdish tribes, preferably of proven loyalty, to form
mounted regiments of approximately 600 men. In many cases these
regiments were drawn solely from one tribe, and its commanding officer
was the tribal chief. In cases where tribes were too small, each might
provide a squadron for a composite regiment.

There were enormous advantages for both a chief invited to levy a
regiment, and for his recruits. Chiefs and their officers were to be
sent to a special military school in Istanbul. They were outfitted in
dashing Cossack-styled uniforms to lend weight to their new
status. Hamidiya tribes were exempted from one of the most unpopular
measures of Ottoman centralization, the liability for conscription
which was being introduced into the region for the very first
time. Hamidiya chiefs were invited to send their sons to one of the
tribal schools established in both Istanbul and Kurdistan, in order to
absorb them into the Ottoman establishment. ...

The ostensible purpose of the Hamidiya Cavalry was to provide a
bulwark against the Russian threat. It was important to stiffen the
resolve of Kurds as part of the empire, especially as some tribes
inside Ottoman territory had been willing to support czar versus
sultan in previous wars. Besides, an increasing number of tribes had
fallen inside Russia's orbit in the Caucasus. The formal deployment of
the Hamidiya regiments was primarily along an axis from Erzerum to
Van [pg 59]. ...

It was not long before the creation of the Hamidiya led to
trouble. For one thing, squabbles and fights broke out between various
chiefs for senior rank within one tribe, and for another, local
commanders did not differentiate between enemies of their tribe qua
tribe, and enemies of the Hamidiya Cavalry.  Scores soon started to be
settled between Hamidiya tribes, armed by the state, and local
adversaries. The powerful Sunni Jibran tribe, which had fielded four
Hamidiya regiments, soon started attacking the Alevi Khurmaks,
confiscating their lands. As reviled Alevis, or Qizilbash, it was not
surprising that the state authorities did nothing to obtain redress
for them or for other Alevi tribes suffering similarly. But even Sunni
tribes not similarly favoured with Hamidiya status were liable to land
theft by force of arms. 

When the government could not afford to pay Hamidiya officers, it
offered them tax-collecting rights on local Armenian villages, causing
further hardship for the latter. In several cases a Kurdish chief was
not only commander of a Hamidiya regiment but also the local civil
authority. .. [T]hose who sought recourse to government still found
that the civil administration had no power to restrain the Hamidiya,
who were answerable solely to the "[chief] of the Fourth Army in
Erzerum. The "[chief]" Zakki Pasha, who happened to be the sultan's
brother-in-law, was subject not to the wali but direct to Istanbul. He
was clearly using the Hamidiya as the instrument of a policy that had
little in common with the brief of the civil administration of the
region. The civil administration had nothing but contempt for the
Hamidiya...

The lawless activities of the Hamidiya set an example which
non-Hamidiya tribal Kurds were soon to imitate. In fact there were any
number of young swells anxious to look the part. Local blacksmiths did
a roaring trade with such dandies, forging Hamidiya badges for wear
with lambskin busbies. As with the Hamidiya, the civil authorities
found themselves powerless to curb them ...

Although most affrays initially were inter-tribal ones, it was the
client peasantry, Muslim and Christian, which suffered most. Soon it
became clear both that the Armenians were the primary targets, and
that the Hamidiya was egged on or even deliberately directed by the
Ottoman military authorities [pg 60].

The growth of the Armenian problem has already been discussed. By the 
early 1890S it had deteriorated considerably. Largely because after
their experiences in the 1877-78 war some Armenians had finally begun
to react to the provocations, depredations and persecution suffered at
the hands of the Ottoman authorities, the Kurdish tribes and the
Muslim citizens of mixed towns and cities. In 1882 'Protectors of the
Fatherland', almost certainly a revolutionary group, was uncovered in
Erzerum. .. In summer 1894 an affray between Armenian villagers and
the local qaim-maqam concerning tax arrears gave the pretext for
wholesale massacre in which local Hamidiya tribesmen played a
prominent part. Over 1,000 villagers probably perished. By spring 1895
the representatives of Britain, France and Russia wanted reforms for
the Armenian provinces: an amnesty for Armenian prisoners; 'approved'
governors; reparations for victims of the outrages at Sasun and
elsewhere; Kurdish nomadic movements to be allowed only under
surveillance and for them generally to be encouraged to settle; and
the Hamidiya to be disarmed.  Abd al Hamid agreed to these demands but
deliberately neglected to implement them. Continued level of
insecurity had reduced agriculture to famine levels by 1897-98 ...

By 1897 even the urban Turkish population had begun to protest about
the intolerably disruptive effect of the Hamidiya Kurds.

It was ..  as much out of weakness as deliberate policy that Hamid
allowed the Hamidiya to inflict such suffering on the Armenians. By
1895 neither the average Hamidiya tribesman nor Turkish soldier made
any distinction between Armenian peasants and revolutionaries. The
tanzimat had risked alienating the tribes already, better now to allow
them free rein. So Abd al Hamid swallowed the European reforms thrust
upon him in Istanbul but made sure, by putting the Hamidiya under
Zakki Pasha rather than the civil authorities, that they could never
be properly implemented. Law and order took second place to loyalty on
this vulnerable border.

Nevertheless, the Hamidiya Cavalry was clearly a failure. On the
whole, there was little sign of integration into a wider Ottoman
context. On the contrary, through the licence allowed to the Hamidiya
regiments, tribalism enjoyed a strong resurgence. ...

After the overthrow of Abd al Hamid's regime by the Committee of Union
and Progress in 1908, a theme discussed more fully in the next
chapter, the Hamidiya regiments were renamed as 'Tribal Regiments'
(ashirat alqylan) but remained essentially the same. The triumph of
the Young Turks, the threat which they posed to supporters of the
ancien regime, and their reversion to authoritarian and explicitly
Turkish rule after a brief spate of liberalism led to disorder [pg
61-63].

