# The Cuban Missile Crisis

From *Nuclear Folly*, by Plokhy

American troops landed on the beaches of Cuba in June 1898. The US
government entered the conflict partly in response to public demand to
stop Spanish atrocities against the Cubans, widely covered and often
exaggerated in the American media. But behind the move was also the
implementation of the decades-old Monroe Doctrine... In 1902, there
was no appetite in Washington to extend American borders to include
Cuba, but neither was there much desire to make it fully
independent... In all but name Cuba became a colony of the United
States in the Caribbean. Most of the assets in the agricultural
sector, mining, utilities, and financial services ended up in American
hands. To safeguard American strategic and economic interests on the
island, the United States made alliances with the local landowning
elite and the military. By far the most trusted American ally in the
presidential office in Havana became General Fulgencio Batista, who
served as president of Cuba between 1940 and 1944, returning to power
in 1952 as a result of a military coup. with the two most powerful
American economic forces on the island, the agricultural corporations
and the Mafia clans. Gambling and prostitution catering to American
tourists became thriving industries...

Upon his return to Cuba, Batista canceled the impending presidential
elections. His corrupt rule antagonized not only the poor but also the
middle class. With elections canceled and democracy under attack,
dissatisfied young people took up arms... On July 23, 1953, a group of
young revolutionaries staged an attack on the Moncada Barracks in
Santiago. The assault was repelled and its leaders arrested. Among the
latter was a twenty-six-year-old lawyer and descendant of a wealthy
landowning family, Fidel Castro, who was sentenced to a fifteen-year
term. His younger brother, Raúl, and twenty-four more participants in
the attack were also imprisoned.  Luckily for the Castro brothers and
their coconspirators, they were released in May 1955 as Batista sought
to improve his international image.

Batista’s regime used ever more brutal tactics to suppress the rebels,
but that only increased the number of fighters. Those measures also
tarnished the image of the regime abroad.. The US government was
obliged to recall its ambassador to Havana and impose a trade embargo
on Cuba, which stopped the sale of arms to Batista and gave a huge
boost to the rebels. The year 1958, when arms sales ceased, became a
turning point in the Castro-led revolution...

The Cuban revolution had succeeded, but what that meant was not yet
clear either to its leaders or to its supporters and opponents, both
in Cuba and abroad. Direct American investment increased during the
first year of Castro’s rule, but that changed quickly as the
government embarked on badly needed agrarian reform. In May 1959
Castro limited the size of agricultural estates to one thousand acres;
the rest were to be confiscated and redistributed by the government
without compensation to the landowners. In July 1960 the government
nationalized all US-owned businesses and properties: since the
revolutionary government needed resources and lacked money, no
compensation was offered for the confiscated properties. In response
President Eisenhower closed American markets to Cuban sugar, by far
the island’s main export..

As far as Eisenhower was concerned, American interests were at
stake...  Only a few years earlier, in June 1954, the CIA had executed
a successful coup in Guatemala, where land reform threatened the
interests of the United Fruit Company... The CIA prepared a plan, but
Eisenhower did not have time to carry out the project. It was passed
on instead to the new president, John Kennedy... [But the Bay of Pigs
invasion] turned into a complete disaster...

<a name='gap'/>

To many in Moscow [JFK..] seemed less tough than Richard Nixon..  and
more susceptible to Khrushchev’s subterfuge and intimidation. Kennedy
appeared to believe in a missile gap between the Soviet Union and the
United States favoring the former—a notion fed not only by the Soviet
success with Sputnik but also by Khrushchev’s own fiery rhetoric, and
one that Eisenhower’s U-2 spy flights were threatening to debunk...

<a name='berlin'/>

[Kennedy's problem in Europe was] General Lucius Clay [.. who] sent
American tanks to Checkpoint Charlie on the border between the eastern
and western sectors to enforce American rights to move freely through
the entire city, including its eastern part, as guaranteed by the
four-power agreements of the immediate postwar era. The Soviets
responded by moving their own tanks to the area. By early evening the
two columns of tanks faced each other at Checkpoint Charlie, each less
than one hundred meters from the demarcation line. The tanks had live
ammunition, and their crews had orders to respond if fired upon.

Clay, in charge of the US troops, was prepared to use his tanks to
crush parts of the newly constructed Berlin Wall. Darkness fell with
no resolution to the crisis. Not until morning did the tanks begin to
draw back from the demarcation line. First the Soviet tanks moved five
meters back; the Americans followed suit. Then came another five
meters from both sides, then another. The standoff, which had begun at
5:00 p.m. on October 27, was over by 11:00 a.m. on October 28. The
orders came from the very top—the White House and the Kremlin. Neither
Kennedy nor Khrushchev wanted the situation to escalate into
war... Unbeknownst to both sides, it would be a model for the solution
of a later and much more serious crisis.

Khrushchev and Kennedy had the first chance to size each other up on
June 3, 1961. The venue was the US embassy in Vienna... [went badly
for JFK, who] assumed that he had been treated that way because of the
Bay of Pigs debacle. Khrushchev “thought that anyone who was so young
and inexperienced as to get into that mess could be taken,” speculated
Kennedy. “And anyone who got into it and didn’t see it through had no
guts. So he just beat the hell out of me.”...

Scarred by the Bay of Pigs invasion and expecting a much more powerful
invasion in the near future, Castro apparently believed that to save
his revolution he had to turn it into a socialist one. He badly needed
socialist solidarity and wanted it to come not only in the form of
Soviet purchases of sugar, trade credits for Soviet equipment, and
supplies of oil. He also wanted weapons, missiles in
particular... Before the end of the year, the desperate Castro had
declared himself a Marxist and a Leninist.

In Moscow Castro was still regarded as part of a broad group of Third
World leaders who opposed imperialism... Privately Khrushchev welcomed
the development but believed it premature on Castro’s part to declare
his socialist agenda and communist goals in public... Feeling
increasingly insecure and ever more frustrated with Moscow’s
procrastination about supplying weapons, Castro was prepared to
reverse tactics and turn on the Marxists in his own country—the
members of the Cuban Communist Party. This was meant to solidify his
political control over the regime and send a signal of frustration to
the communist world at large... In defiance of Moscow, Castro sacked
[a known pro-Moscow leader] Escalante from his all-important
position. Castro also managed to turn the communist old guard into
scapegoats at a time when popular support for his regime was declining
and discontent caused by the worsening economic situation was on the
rise...

Forced to choose between the old communist Escalante and the brand-new
Marxist Castro, Khrushchev had decided to back the latter... Castro’s
pledge to lead his country to socialism, previously ignored, had
finally paid off, but only after his unexpected attack on Moscow’s
allies in Havana. Khrushchev’s hitherto cautious approach to Castro
and Cuba was completely abandoned on April 18, when he sent a letter
to “Comrade Fidel Castro” commemorating the first anniversary of the
Cuban victory at the Bay of Pigs.

Castro had finally gotten Khrushchev on an ideological leash, but
Khrushchev was willing to be caught. His motive was not purely
ideological. Great-power rivalry and the nuclear arms race with the
United States, which Khrushchev knew he was losing, were among the
factors that attracted him to Cuba...

In April 1962 Khrushchev found himself simultaneously besieged by a
number of foreign policy crises. First there was Castro’s sudden turn
against the communists in his government and threat of a new invasion
of the island. Then came news that Kennedy had resumed atmospheric
nuclear testing—a nuclear bomb was exploded at Christmas Island in the
Pacific on April 25. [He fired a commander] allowing the real missile
gap between the US and the USSR to increase.. [There was a new US
missile called Minuteman] powered by solid fuel and, unlike earlier
liquid-fueled missiles that needed hours of fueling before a strike,
could be ready at any minute -- hence the name. Moreover Minuteman
could be housed in silos hard for the enemy to destroy, making them
almost impregnable. The USSR had nothing comparable to the Minuteman,
because its missiles ran on liquid fuel and needed hours of prestrike
fueling on open pads, making them vulnerable to enemy attack...

[Kruschev] had a eureka moment: he would do to the Americans what they
had done to the Soviet Union and place his nuclear missiles on the
shores of Cuba... This looked like a solution to both of his problems,
protecting Cuba and bridging the missile gap with the United
States... 

[JFK]: “[I]t’s just as if we suddenly began to put a major number of
MRBMs in Turkey. Now that’d be goddam dangerous, I would think.”
Undersecretary of State Alexis Johnson interjected a sobering remark:
“We did it.”  Kennedy was unimpressed: “Yeah, but it was five years
ago.” But Johnson would not give up. “That’s when we were short on
ICBMs,” he told Kennedy.  Unknowingly, he pointed at one of the key
factors that motivated Khrushchev’s actions in Cuba: his lack of
long-range intercontinental missiles...

“[The Cuban missile crisis] is a political struggle as much as
military,” [JFK] told his advisers that evening. He agreed with
McNamara that the missiles did not change the military balance, but
politically he felt himself in a bind. “Last month I said we were not
going ‘to allow it.’ Last month I should have said we don’t care. But
when we said we’re not going to, and then they go ahead and do it, and
then we do nothing, then I would think that our risks increase.”...

In the past, every time Kennedy was bullied, outmaneuvered, or
defeated by Khrushchev in their personal meetings, as at Vienna in
June 1960, he would strike back by asking Congress either to increase
the defense budget or to call up reservists, or both. He was
overcompensating at home for diplomatic defeats abroad, not only to
warn Khrushchev but also to protect himself politically in his own
country...



