# The Cuban Missile Crisis

From *Nuclear Folly*, by Plokhy

American troops landed on the beaches of Cuba in June 1898. The US
government entered the conflict partly.. to stop Spanish atrocities
against the Cubans, widely covered and often exaggerated in the
American media. But behind the move was also the implementation of the
decades-old Monroe Doctrine... In 1902, there was no appetite in
Washington to extend American borders to include Cuba, but neither was
there much desire to make it fully independent... In all but name Cuba
became a colony of the United States in the Caribbean. Most of the
assets in the agricultural sector, mining, utilities, and financial
services ended up in American hands. To safeguard American strategic
and economic interests on the island, the United States made alliances
with the local landowning elite and the military. By far the most
trusted American ally in the presidential office in Havana became
General Fulgencio Batista, who served as president of Cuba between
1940 and 1944, returning to power in 1952 as a result of a military
coup. with the two most powerful American economic forces on the
island, the agricultural corporations and the Mafia clans. Gambling
and prostitution catering to American tourists became thriving
industries...

Upon his return to Cuba, Batista canceled the impending presidential
elections. His corrupt rule antagonized not only the poor but also the
middle class. With elections canceled and democracy under attack,
dissatisfied young people took up arms... On July 23, 1953, a group of
young revolutionaries staged an attack on the Moncada Barracks in
Santiago. The assault was repelled and its leaders arrested. Among the
latter was a twenty-six-year-old lawyer and descendant of a wealthy
landowning family, Fidel Castro, who was sentenced to a fifteen-year
term. His younger brother, Raúl, and twenty-four more participants in
the attack were also imprisoned.  Luckily for the Castro brothers and
their coconspirators, they were released in May 1955 as Batista sought
to improve his international image.

Batista’s regime used ever more brutal tactics to suppress the rebels,
but that only increased the number of fighters. Those measures also
tarnished the image of the regime abroad.. The US government was
obliged to recall its ambassador to Havana and impose a trade embargo
on Cuba, which stopped the sale of arms to Batista and gave a huge
boost to the rebels. The year 1958, when arms sales ceased, became a
turning point in the Castro-led revolution...

The Cuban revolution had succeeded, but what that meant was not yet
clear either to its leaders or to its supporters and opponents, both
in Cuba and abroad. Direct American investment increased during the
first year of Castro’s rule, but that changed quickly as the
government embarked on badly needed agrarian reform. In May 1959
Castro limited the size of agricultural estates to one thousand acres;
the rest were to be confiscated and redistributed by the government
without compensation to the landowners. In July 1960 the government
nationalized all US-owned businesses and properties: since the
revolutionary government needed resources and lacked money, no
compensation was offered for the confiscated properties. In response
President Eisenhower closed American markets to Cuban sugar, by far
the island’s main export..

As far as Eisenhower was concerned, American interests were at
stake...  

<a name='bayofpigs'/>

In March 1960, with agrarian reform in Cuba already underway but
confiscation of American commercial properties not yet announced,
Eisenhower decided to bring about regime change in Cuba. Castro was to
be removed from power in the same way he had acquired it: through a
popular uprising initiated by political exiles returning to Cuba. The
CIA prepared a plan, but Eisenhower did not have time to carry out the
project. It was passed on instead to the new president, John Kennedy...

The CIA deputy director for plans, Richard M. Bissell, the former
administrator of the Marshall Plan in postwar Germany, was the
principal author of the plan, which proposed to land on Cuba hundreds
of guerrilla fighters recruited from the ranks of Cuban exiles and
trained in CIA camps in Guatemala.

Kennedy decided to approve the invasion during the Easter break.. With
the invasion planned for Sunday, April 16, Kennedy decided to spend
that weekend away from the White House at his family retreat in Glen
Ora, Virginia. Since the media knew his whereabouts, this was one more
ploy to deny involvement in the planned invasion not only on the part
of American forces but also on that of the president...

The invaders had little air cover: the surviving Cuban planes
outnumbered the six aircraft provided by the CIA to support Brigade
2506. They would soon lose two ships, the USS Houston and the USS Rio
Escondido, which carried their supplies of fuel, ammunition, and
medicine. Besides, the coral reefs that CIA scouts had mistaken for
seaweed prevented the rest of the transport ships from reaching the
beaches, and the exiles had to use boats to get there, losing some of
their weapons and ammunition in the high water. What they managed to
save was wet and often inoperable. Short of weapons, supplies, and
ammunition, they were also outnumbered and outgunned once Castro’s
reinforcements began to arrive at the Bay of Pigs—altogether close to
twenty thousand police officers, soldiers, and members of local
militias. They were assisted by crews in Soviet-made T-34 tanks. 17
The CIA asked Kennedy to authorize the use of US airplanes to help the
invasion force, but he refused...

Rusk was now determined to kill CIA plans for any airstrikes that
could not be credibly attributed to the planes taking off from
airstrips in Cuba. Kennedy, with whom Rusk had spoken by phone after
9:00 p.m. on April 16, was of the same opinion. As far as he was
concerned, he had never authorized such strikes and now gave an order
to cancel those already planned by the CIA... General Charles Cabell
of the CIA called Rusk at home and asked him to reconsider. He made
the same plea to the president. But the order remained in force:
invasion—yes, air support —no. The invaders floundered on the beaches
of the Bay of Pigs, fighting now for their lives, not for a chance to
break out and launch a nationwide uprising...

[I]n the early hours of April 19, with things going from bad to worse,
[JFK] yielded, allowing the use of camouflaged planes piloted by
Americans in support of the invaders, but the pilots were not allowed
to fight enemy aircraft, and their mission was limited to a few
hours. The military commanders seized the opportunity but failed to
take advantage of it. Because of the time difference between Nicaragua
and Cuba, the planes arrived later than expected. Two of them were
shot down, and four American pilots went missing. Radio Havana
declared that the Cubans had recovered the body of one of the
Americans. By now the venture had turned into a complete disaster.

<a name='gap'/>

To many in Moscow [JFK..] seemed less tough than Richard Nixon..  and
more susceptible to Khrushchev’s subterfuge and intimidation. Kennedy
appeared to believe in a missile gap between the Soviet Union and the
United States favoring the former—a notion fed not only by the Soviet
success with Sputnik but also by Khrushchev’s own fiery rhetoric, and
one that Eisenhower’s U-2 spy flights were threatening to debunk...

<a name='berlin'/>

Khrushchev needed a solution to the Berlin crisis that would not
involve the threatened peace treaty with East Germany, the loss of
American access rights, and a possible military confrontation. Such a
scenario might lead to thermonuclear war, perhaps more easily with a
weak president than with a strong one. Khrushchev knew that he had
nothing with which to counter Kennedy: the “missile gap” actually
favored the United States, and he had no additional funds for his
military to match Kennedy’s unprecedented buildup. Nor could he wait
any longer to solve his Berlin problem, as East Germans, attracted by
higher living standards in the West, were leaving the German socialist
paradise in ever greater numbers... The East German leader, Walter
Ulbricht, had a solution: surrounding West Berlin with a wall... On
August 1...  Khrushchev told Ulbricht that he could start building the
wall...[Eisenhower would later criticize JFK on this '[w]e witnessed
no abdication of international responsibility... No walls were built,
no threatening foreign bases were established]"

[Kennedy's problem was] General Lucius Clay [.. who] sent American
tanks to Checkpoint Charlie on the border between the eastern and
western sectors to enforce American rights to move freely through the
entire city, including its eastern part, as guaranteed by the
four-power agreements of the immediate postwar era. The Soviets
responded by moving their own tanks to the area. By early evening the
two columns of tanks faced each other at Checkpoint Charlie, each less
than one hundred meters from the demarcation line. The tanks had live
ammunition, and their crews had orders to respond if fired upon. Clay,
in charge of the US troops, was prepared to use his tanks to crush
parts of the newly constructed Berlin Wall. Darkness fell with no
resolution to the crisis.

Not until morning did the tanks begin to draw back from the
demarcation line. First the Soviet tanks moved five meters back; the
Americans followed suit. Then came another five meters from both
sides, then another. The standoff, which had begun at 5:00 p.m. on
October 27, was over by 11:00 a.m. on October 28. The orders came from
the very top—the White House and the Kremlin. Neither Kennedy nor
Khrushchev wanted the situation to escalate into war... Unbeknownst to
both sides, it would be a model for the solution of a later and much
more serious crisis...

Khrushchev and Kennedy had the first chance to size each other up on
June 3, 1961. The venue was the US embassy in Vienna... [went badly
for JFK, who] assumed that he had been treated that way because of the
Bay of Pigs debacle. Khrushchev “thought that anyone who was so young
and inexperienced as to get into that mess could be taken,” speculated
Kennedy. “And anyone who got into it and didn’t see it through had no
guts. So he just beat the hell out of me.”...

Scarred by the Bay of Pigs invasion and expecting a much more powerful
invasion in the near future, Castro apparently believed that to save
his revolution he had to turn it into a socialist one. He badly needed
socialist solidarity and wanted it to come not only in the form of
Soviet purchases of sugar, trade credits for Soviet equipment, and
supplies of oil. He also wanted weapons, missiles in
particular... Before the end of the year, the desperate Castro had
declared himself a Marxist and a Leninist.

<a name='ideo'/>

In Moscow Castro was still regarded as part of a broad group of Third
World leaders who opposed imperialism... Privately Khrushchev welcomed
the development but believed it premature on Castro’s part to declare
his socialist agenda and communist goals in public... Feeling
increasingly insecure and ever more frustrated with Moscow’s
procrastination about supplying weapons, Castro was prepared to
reverse tactics and turn on the Marxists in his own country—the
members of the Cuban Communist Party. This was meant to solidify his
political control over the regime and send a signal of frustration to
the communist world at large... In defiance of Moscow, Castro sacked
[a known pro-Moscow leader] Escalante from his all-important
position. Castro also managed to turn the communist old guard into
scapegoats at a time when popular support for his regime was declining
and discontent caused by the worsening economic situation was on the
rise...

Forced to choose between the old communist Escalante and the brand-new
Marxist Castro, Khrushchev had decided to back the latter... Castro’s
pledge to lead his country to socialism, previously ignored, had
finally paid off, but only after his unexpected attack on Moscow’s
allies in Havana. Khrushchev’s hitherto cautious approach to Castro
and Cuba was completely abandoned on April 18, when he sent a letter
to “Comrade Fidel Castro” commemorating the first anniversary of the
Cuban victory at the Bay of Pigs.

Castro had finally gotten Khrushchev on an ideological leash, but
Khrushchev was willing to be caught. His motive was not purely
ideological. Great-power rivalry and the nuclear arms race with the
United States, which Khrushchev knew he was losing, were among the
factors that attracted him to Cuba...

In April 1962 Khrushchev found himself simultaneously besieged by a
number of foreign policy crises. First there was Castro’s sudden turn
against the communists in his government and threat of a new invasion
of the island. Then came news that Kennedy had resumed atmospheric
nuclear testing—a nuclear bomb was exploded at Christmas Island in the
Pacific on April 25. [He fired a commander] allowing the real missile
gap between the US and the USSR to increase.. [There was a new US
missile called Minuteman] powered by solid fuel and, unlike earlier
liquid-fueled missiles that needed hours of fueling before a strike,
could be ready at any minute -- hence the name. Moreover Minuteman
could be housed in silos hard for the enemy to destroy, making them
almost impregnable. The USSR had nothing comparable to the Minuteman,
because its missiles ran on liquid fuel and needed hours of prestrike
fueling on open pads, making them vulnerable to enemy attack...

[Kruschev] had a eureka moment: he would do to the Americans what they
had done to the Soviet Union and place his nuclear missiles on the
shores of Cuba... This looked like a solution to both of his problems,
protecting Cuba and bridging the missile gap with the United
States... 

[JFK said 'It is] just as if we suddenly began to put a major number
of MRBMs in Turkey. Now that’d be goddam dangerous, I would think.'
Undersecretary of State Alexis Johnson interjected a sobering remark:
'We did it.'  Kennedy was unimpressed: 'Yeah, but it was five years
ago.' But Johnson would not give up. 'That’s when we were short on
ICBMs,' he told Kennedy.  Unknowingly, he pointed at one of the key
factors that motivated Khrushchev’s actions in Cuba: his lack of
long-range intercontinental missiles...

In the past, every time Kennedy was bullied, outmaneuvered, or
defeated by Khrushchev in their personal meetings, as at Vienna in
June 1960, he would strike back by asking Congress either to increase
the defense budget or to call up reservists, or both. He was
overcompensating at home for diplomatic defeats abroad, not only to
warn Khrushchev but also to protect himself politically in his own
country...



