# Let’s talk about the market economy

Link

The Financial Times is debating capitalism, but what it is really
debating is the future of the market economy [..].

[T]he term [capialism] came to describe the system of business
organisation which had made the industrial revolution possible. By the
mid-19th century that system was central to the economic
landscape. Werner Siemens in Germany, Andrew Carnegie and John
D. Rockefeller in the US, and in Britain Richard Arkwright’s
successors. As individuals or with a small group of active partners,
they built and owned both the factories and plants in which the new
working class was employed, and the machinery inside them [..].

If the first half of the 20th century was a time of fundamental change
in the nature of business organisation, the second half was a time of
fundamental change in the nature of business success. The value of raw
materials is only a small part of the value of the production of a
complex modern economy, and the value of physical assets is only a
small part of the value of most modern businesses. The critical
resources of today’s company are not its buildings and machines but
its competitive advantages – its systems of organisation, its
reputation with suppliers and customers, its capacity for
innovation. These attributes are not, in any relevant sense, capable
of being owned by anyone at all.

The typical reader of this article works in front of a computer at a
desk in an office block. He or she probably does not know who owns any
of these things. It is quite likely that each is owned by someone
different – a pension fund, a property company or a leasing business –
none of whom is their employer.

People do not know who owns their work tools because the answer does
not matter. If your boss pushes you around, exploits you or
appropriates your surplus value, the reasons have nothing to do with
the ownership of capital. While control over the means of production
and exchange matters a great deal to the organisation of business and
the power structures of society, ownership of the means of production
and exchange matters very little.

Sloppy language leads to sloppy thinking. By continuing to use the
19th-century term capitalism for an economic system that has evolved
into something altogether different, we are liable to misunderstand
the sources of strength of the market economy and the role capital
plays within it.
