# A Functioning Democracy

P. Hintjens, *Culture and Empire*

Although I don't aim to be a political writer, politics does often
provide the most tangible examples of mad mobs. US politics, to take a
large example, has [a lot of negatives] and has produced nonsensical
results like the election of transparently incompetent and unethical
presidents.

A cynical observer would see deliberate strategy at work here. Drive
public opinion towards stupidity by focusing debate on emotional but
unsolvable issues, or issues that invoke tribalism. Create spectator
masses through television. Give political events the same look and
feel as sporting events, including cheerleaders dressed up as Fox News
anchors. One might even argue that mainstream political parties are
like the red and blue arm bands: symbols of division lacking any
substance.

If we accept this analysis that US politics is largely about not
discussing the real issues, it should be a simple recipe to turn the mad
 mob of US democracy into a boring yet sane wise crowd. First, ban 
television coverage of party politics and televised political 
advertisements, no matter who pays. Second, treat discussions of sex, 
religion, ethnicity, or language in political debates as immoral, rude, 
and unethical. Third, ban public political events. Last, ban party 
colors, slogans, and other tribal marketing.

You might say such a democracy could never function, but actually 
there are many countries where this is roughly how things work. They 
tend to produce boring but competent governments that do not steal 
billions, do not declare war on other countries, and do not spy on their
 own citizens. Much of Europe is governed by such policies, formal or 
informal. The only cases in Europe where government starts to go mad is 
where tribalism gets added to the mix, like Belgium in certain seasons. 
But for the last year Belgium has worked well without any elected 
federal government at all.











