# The Sims

The Sims [..] wasn’t anyone’s pick at the time to ultimately become
the best selling video game franchise of all time. But in the 14 years
since it launched, The Sims has had an immeasurable impact on the
industry [..] As a typical gamer, my own experience with The Sims
started off typically. I found it more fascinating than fun, but
nevertheless got caught up in a relentless quest to have the happiest
Sims, the biggest house, and the most girlfriends (my real life
girlfriend did not approve.) And money. Lots of money [..].

[Others were different]. Nearly every player I watched did different
 things, and few had anything to do with getting the high score. One
 wanted to be a Scientist.  Another created a home where every room
 had its own unique decor. Yet another focused on fashion, playing
 dress-up and hosting themed parties.  One [..] would run experiments,
 such as locking the entire neighborhood in a room with all grills and
 no doors, forcing Sims to choose between starving or burning. They
 chose the inferno.

At first I was bewildered. Why are you all playing the game wrong?
 Don’t you want to win? But as I continued to watch, my confusion gave
 way to appreciation, and soon I was vicariously sharing in the joy of
 just trying things, seeing what happens, and relishing the
 process. My limited world view of The Sims had expanded, and what had
 previously been a brief blip in my own gaming radar became an
 obsession. Around 100 days in, I had reconciled with the idea that
 there was no wrong way to play [..]

[The author then joins Maxis, the company that makes the Sims]. I had
the good fortune of sitting near one of the game’s designers, and
through many overheard conversations, I discovered that the Sims team
doesn’t think about players all in one large bucket, to be sloshed
around indiscriminately. Rather, there are many distinct player types
that each imply particular design decisions. Most notably, there are
Achievers and Dollhousers.

Achievers view the game as just that — a Game — with rules to be
mastered and goals to overcome. Achievers take the shortest possible
path to the maximum possible outcome. If there’s a number, Achievers
want to make it bigger, and anything that distracts from that goal is
a needless waste of time. Achievers skip every cut-scene, keep the
game clock pegged at triple-speed, and will stop at nothing to win.

Although the word “Dollhouser” may conjure up imagery of little girls
dressed in pink, the term had a specific meaning to the Sims team:
Dollhousers set their own goals. They may briefly acknowledge the
numbers, but largely ignore any defined objectives in favor of carving
their own path. They tinker. They tell stories. They spent more time
in Build mode than Buy mode, choosing to produce rather than
consume. Long after an Achiever thinks they’ve beaten the game and
it’s time to move on, a Dollhouser keeps creating new ways to play.

Achievers kept pushing towards victory, but upon discovering that the
numbers have no upper limit, they invariably got bored and
quit. Meanwhile, despite not being a real word [..] Dollhousing is the
most rewarding, long-lasting, and dare I say best way to play. As more
of a toy than a game, The Sims doesn’t reward players seeking a high
score — pursuing one is a sure path to frustration and
failure. Dollhousers play by their own rules [..]

I don’t know if it was all my late nights wrangling code, or simply
 too many hours staring at a screen trying to make sense of Simlish,
 but at some point the lines began to blur between The Sims and my
 everyday existence, [I started to wonder, w]ho was controlling me?
 What type of player was he?

Being the youngest of five children, I had always been naturally
competitive. But as I grew older, and the structure of schoolwork gave
way to an endless paradox of choice, it became harder to tell if I was
on the right path. I questioned whether I was pursuing the most
lucrative career, whether I was fulfilling my needs fast enough. Am I
playing the game wrong? Don’t I want to win? With each day slipping by
too quickly as I was unable to find the pause button, something had to
change. I needed to look beyond the subjectively objective measures of
success — wealth, popularity, or whatever ways people try to keep
score — and realize none of that truly mattered, and all my frantic
effort was holding me back from simply enjoying the game. And I
really, seriously needed some sleep [..].

[Now] each year, in the first week of February, I take a moment to
remember that there’s more to life, whether Sim or real, than getting
the high score. Life is broader, more fulfilling, and lasts much
longer when you set your own goals. When you observe and appreciate
the goals of others. When you don’t play to win, but when the goal
itself is simply to play.

So how about it: Are you ready to switch out of Buy Mode and into
Build Mode? Do you want to Play With Life?













