# Startup Sovereigns

Statehood ain’t what it used to be.The competition for authority
within and between states is as intense as ever in history
[..]. Historically, technological revolutions [..] have catalyzed
tensions over authority, as new communities seize opportunities for
control. It is now happening again, allowing alternative authorities
to flourish — and in some places, even directly challenge state
sovereignty.And yet mainstream international relations thinking
continues to overemphasize military might and other traditional tools
of state power. The prevailing literature on the evolution of
governance, for instance, assumes a state-centric order and widely
neglects the role of technology. Francis Fukuyama’s most recent
volume, Origins of Political Order, is emblematic of these oversights:
As it sweeps across the centuries, it presumes a constant quest for
statehood even into the 21st century, ignoring the potential for novel
forms of transnational communities. But now, as the current
Information Revolution spreads around the world, aspirant communities
are building economic and social capital, acquiring varying degrees of
autonomy, and accruing authority [..]

All the traditional tools of state power — the monopoly over arms and 
violence, dominance over tools of communication, and external 
recognition of exclusive legitimacy — are eroding rapidly [..].

Technology has enabled the public to mobilize without state direction. 
Every day brings new headlines that support this shift: The hacker 
collective Anonymous targeted Israel when it attacked Gaza, and then 
turned its attention to Egyptian President Mohamed Morsy when he 
arrogated excessive powers to himself. In the aftermath of Hurricane 
Sandy, the Occupy Sandy movement used simple platforms such as Google 
Docs to coordinate greater volumes of assistance to displaced people 
than FEMA. And while the United States has responded to WikiLeaks’ 
exposure of countless diplomatic cables with greater secrecy, this has 
only further inspired the growing ranks of whistleblower websites that 
enable the anonymous disclosure of material [..].

The Arab Spring revolutions, for all their disappointments, have also 
been a profound example of the mobilizing power of technology [..].

Soon, novel alliances among sub-state civil society groups and 
transnational commercial ventures might even emerge that promote 
parallel economic self-governance. Virtual currencies such as Bitcoin, a
 digital currency unpegged to any real world currency, could become a 
vital medium for enabling the trade and exchange of virtual goods and 
services. Sweden-based Pirate Bay, already a key leader of the 
anti-copyright movement, now plans to elevate private data-sharing to a 
new level by locating servers in Arctic caves and plans to fly them on 
drones in international airspace — or perhaps house them on Blueseed. 
Through such tools, the sovereign mandate and regulatory power of 
central governments is diminished in favor of technologically enabled 
horizontal networks of consumers and civic groups, as well as the 
technology providers whose software allows them to evade government 
control. 















