# Little America

Chandrasekaran

Heeding Ambassador Dreyfus’s warning that America’s reputation was at
stake in Helmand, President Harry Truman’s administration dispatched a
team of U.S. advisers in 1952 under his Point Four assistance program,
which aimed to blunt Soviet influence in the developing world. One of
the team’s first tasks was to find a suitable town to house the
Americans and Afghans working for the new Helmand Valley Authority.

The team eventually determined that a plot along the river not far
from Qala Bost, the ancient Ghaznavid arch, was the best site, in part
because it was situated near a grove of trees... The area had long
been called Lashkar Gah—“army barracks” in Persian— because it was
where the Ghaznavid kings had quartered their troops.  Patterson
wanted to name the new community Town of Helmand. The Afghans said
Lashkar Gah was just fine.  Soon, however, the Afghans came up with a
new name. They started to call the place Little America...

In January 2010..  Colonel Randy Newman.. asked his staff to organize
a briefing about agriculture in the district with the smartest guy
they could find. The call went to Wes Harris, a sturdy, mustachioed
agricultural extension agent from southeastern Georgia who was the
U.S. Department of Agriculture representative at Nicholson’s
headquarters at Camp Leatherneck. He found himself in Helmand because
Richard Holbrooke had prodded Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to
send farming specialists to Afghanistan. When the Agriculture
Department had advertised the jobs, Harris had applied. Although the
fifty-six-year-old had spent years assisting farmers on behalf of the
University of Georgia and had regularly traveled to Washington to help
the Agriculture Department draft the annual Farm Bill, he did not have
any overseas experience. He didn’t speak Pashto or know much about
Afghan history. But when he talked to farmers— with the aid of an
interpreter—they quickly found common ground. Harris had dirt under
his fingernails. He knew more about farming than any USAID officer in
Afghanistan, and because the soil and climate in Helmand were similar
to those of southern Georgia, he had a keen sense of what would—and
wouldn’t—grow in the province.

Colonel Newman, a rangy infantryman who wore large glasses, had grown
alarmed by satellite images indicating that Marja was blanketed with
poppy, and he asked Harris for his thoughts on alternative
crops. Harris had assembled twenty-one slides to illustrate his talk
for the colonel and his senior staff, but it was the fifth one that
piqued Newman’s interest. Harris listed the income farmers made on a
hectare of land from different crops, after the costs of seed,
fertilizer, labor, and taxes were subtracted. Poppy, of course, was
the most lucrative. But the closest competitor was a surprise to
everyone in the room. It was cotton.

“Why aren’t we doing that?” asked Newman, who had grown up on a farm
in Indiana.

Harris had been in Afghanistan for only a month. He had not yet
visited the cotton gin in Lashkar Gah or heard of Dick Scott’s
travails seven years earlier. “I think this is one of the ways
forward,” he said.

A USAID representative at the meeting reported Harris’s comments to
agency officials. An hour later, USAID sent an e-mail to Newman
asserting that cotton was not a viable substitute for poppy because
the government-run gin had lost $3 million in 2008. The claim seemed
fishy to Harris. Based on the numbers he had crunched, there was no
way the gin could have hemorrhaged that much money. Cotton was at
record prices on the world market. There were also forty small,
privately owned gins across the province. If cotton was so
unprofitable, why did it interest so many local businessmen? He didn’t
have access to the gin’s books to see for himself. But his subsequent
conversations with USAID officials revealed what Scott had learned in
the first years of the war: The agency hated cotton.

It wasn’t until September—eight months later and well after the window
to plant cottonseed that year—that Harris saw the spreadsheet that had
provided the basis for the $3 million claim. It had been assembled by
Rory Donohoe, the top USAID official in Helmand, who was not an
agriculture expert. Harris soon spotted the problem: In converting
expenses per kilogram to pounds, Donohoe had multiplied by 2.2 instead
of dividing. And then Harris found another error: Donohoe had based
his calculations on the world price for ginned lint cotton, not
unginned seed cotton, which was how the gin compensated farmers—a
mistake that had inflated costs by a factor of three.  Harris was
livid. The most viable alternative to poppy had been torpedoed by
USAID because of a couple of flawed calculations. Was USAID so
incompetent that nobody in the bureaucracy could recognize two simple
mistakes? Harris wondered. Or was the agency playing fast and loose
with the data to justify its long-standing aversion to cotton?

Either way, Harris figured he had his trump card. He identified the
mistakes in an e-mail to the top Agriculture Department official at
the embassy and waited for word that USAID was rescinding its
opposition.  Instead, USAID fired back with new arguments. Cotton
requires too much water. Not so, said Harris. Pakistan and Uzbekistan
grow cotton more efficiently, and the competition would make it
difficult for the Afghans to export their crop. “Who cares?” Harris
responded. “It’s something they know how to grow, and they’re good at
it.” Afghan weavers and cloth merchants wanted to buy much of the
gin’s output; and, he noted, if foreign competition was so stiff, why
were so many Pakistani buyers seeking Afghan cotton every year? USAID
tried to argue that Afghan cotton was of inferior quality. Harris
shipped samples back to the United States for analysis at the
University of Georgia. Helmand cotton, he learned, “is as good as the
cotton we produce.”

When USAID claimed that cotton required government subsidies, he
refrained from asking, “If we do it, why can’t they?” World cotton
prices were high enough to make the crop profitable without any help
from Kabul.  The only handout the farmers expected was minor—just free
seeds from the processed cotton. There was also the potential for
microcredit: In the 1970s, the gin had provided farmers with cash
advances so they could buy fertilizer; the money had been deducted
from their payments when they brought in their bales. To Harris, there
was no defensible economic argument against cotton.

Practical considerations also weighed in cotton’s favor. All those
melons and vegetables that farmers were growing with cut-rate AVIPA
seeds had to be transported to markets before they spoiled. But most
farmers didn’t own trucks. They had to rent or borrow tractors and
carts—if any were available— and then they had to hope that on the
rutted dirt roads from their farms to the bazaars, their melons didn’t
turn into juice. Cotton needed no such tender care. Once picked, it
could sit on farms for months. And there was no way to damage it, no
matter how bad the roads. Harvesting cotton, like poppy, was labor
intensive, providing employment for the same idle local men coveted by
Taliban recruiters.

“We looked at cotton from every angle,” Harris said. “It just made sense.”

Finally USAID raised the Bumpers Amendment, the law that forbids the
use of U.S. funds to help foreign cotton producers. Once again Harris
had a rejoinder. The amendment, he insisted, prohibits only activities
that affect American exporters. “You cannot tell me that Afghan cotton
is going to have any significant impact on U.S. exports,” he argued.

USAID still refused to help. But Harris would not give up. He
persuaded a Defense Department task force seeking to improve
Afghanistan’s economy to purchase new parts for the gin, and he
persuaded the Marines—with Newman’s encouragement—to help farmers
transport their cotton to the gin for processing. The Marines even
used their discretionary funds to buy a machine to compress cotton
bales so farmers could fit more into their tractor carts. The
assistance helped the gin restart in October 2010—it had been
shuttered for all of the previous year—and process five hundred tons
of cotton. Although it was a fraction of the plant’s capacity, the
activity attracted the attention of farmers across the
province. Afghans knew the value of cotton. The Pashto word for
it—spinzar—means “white gold.”

With its antediluvian machinery, bloated workforce, and cryptic
accounting system, the gin was far from a model enterprise. The
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which owned the facility, decided
how much cotton it would buy from farmers—and at what price—based on
bids it received from buyers before the growing season began. To
Harris, this was a backward system that didn’t encourage farmers to
blanket their fields with cotton, but it was the product of
necessity. The gin lacked the capital to buy first and sell later; it
was forced to limit its purchases to what it was sure to sell.

Harris thought USAID’s insistence that the gin be privatized before it
received American help was unrealistic. The ministry was not inclined
to sell a factory that brought the government money, even if a
pittance. Either the Americans could sit on their hands and watch
Afghans return to poppy, or they could help generate more money for
farmers and the cash-strapped government in Kabul. To Harris it seemed
an obvious choice.

He wanted to provide the gin with $1 million to expand its purchases
from farmers. With that kind of buying power, he said, “all of
northern Marja would have turned white” and one-eighth of the farmland
across the province would have been covered with cotton. He imagined
the gin operating at capacity, with convoys of trucks rolling up to
collect processed bales.

The Marines loved his vision, but they couldn’t swing a $1 million
loan.  Their discretionary funds from the Pentagon, which were
intended to build schools and roads, had no provision for that level
of assistance to an established factory. The one organization that had
money for such projects was USAID. A million dollars was a rounding
error in the overall AVIPA budget. But by then Harris knew there was
no way the agency would help the gin.

“Everything was there to make it work except for a basic understanding
of agriculture by AID’s supposed experts,” he grumbled upon his return
to Georgia. “They cost us a huge opportunity.”
