# Muhammad: Prophet of Peace Amid the Clash of Empires

Juan Cole

The new world religion of Islam rose against the backdrop of
seventh-century game of thrones between the Roman Empire and the
Sasanian Empire of Iran that was fought with unparalleled savagery for
nearly three decades.  The imperial armies zigzagged bloodily across
the Near East, the Fertile Crescent, Asia Minor, and the
Balkans. Although the Qur’an makes it clear that this struggle between
rival emperors, whom contemporaries called “the two eyes of the
earth,” formed an essential context for the mission of the prophet
Muhammad, historians have only recently attempted explorations of the
latter’s life and thought with this framework in mind.

This book puts forward a reinterpretation of early Islam as a movement
strongly inflected with values of peacemaking that was reacting
against the slaughter of the decades-long war and attendant religious
strife. From the Crusades to colonialism, conflicts between Christians
and Muslims led to a concentration among writers of European heritage
on war and Islam, leaving the dimension of peace and cooperation
neglected. Both peace and war are present in the Qur’an, just as they
are in the Bible, and both will be analyzed below, but the focus here
is on peace.

This book studies the Qur’an in its historical context rather than
trying to explain what Muslims believe about their scripture. The
Qur’an insists on liberty of conscience and forbearance toward
enemies, and it prohibits unprovoked, aggressive warfare. It promises
salvation to all righteous monotheists and not just to followers of
the prophet Muhammad..

The Qur’an insists that aggressive warfare is wrong and that if the
enemy seeks an armistice, Muslims are bound to accept the
entreaty. This disallowing of aggressive war and search for a
resolution even in the midst of violent conflict justifies the title
'prophet of peace,' even if Muhammad was occasionally forced into a
defensive campaign. The Qur’an contains a doctrine of just war but not
of holy war and does not use the word jihad with that latter
connotation...

Life in medieval feudal societies did not encourage pacific
theologies, and Muslims in later empires lost touch with the realities
of the early seventh century. What if we read Jesus’s life and thought
only through the lens of Pope Urban II, who launched the sanguinary
Crusades in the Holy Land with the cry, “God wills it!”? 

Even today, many scholars of early Islam seem unduly deferential to
later medieval interpreters. Others radically reject all information
in those sources, treating Muslim histories differently from Byzantine
or Carolingian chronicles, once again condemning non-Europeans to
being a people without a history. The Qur’an tells us about that
history if we will listen to it, and it tells us what is plausible in
the later biographies of the Prophet.
