# The Big Bang Never Happened

Eric Lerner

Big Bang supposedly occurred only about twenty billion years ago,
nothing in the cosmos can be older than this. Yet in 1986 astronomers
discovered that galaxies compose huge agglomerations a billion
light-years across; such mammoth clusterings of matter must have taken
a hundred billion years to form..

<a name='era'/>

There has always been an intimate relation between the ideas dominant
in cosmology and the ideas dominant in society. It would be
astonishing if that relationship had come to an end in our present
enlightened times. Not that cosmologists directly derive their
theories from social or political ideas—far from it. But what sounds
reasonable to them cannot but be influenced by events in the world
around them and what they and others think about it... The Big Bang's
golden age in the seventies.. corresponds to the end of the postwar
boom and a new decade of growing pessimism. In fact, the links between
cosmological and social ideas were made explicit by both cosmologists
and political writers of the period...

But there is probably no better example in this century of the
interaction of social ideology and cosmology than the development of
the inflationary universe in the eighties. Nineteen eighty, with the
coming to power of conservative administrations in America and
elsewhere, marked the end of a period of fashionable pessimism and the
beginning of a decade of speculative boom. Alan Guth arrived at his
idea of cosmic inflation just as the worst monetary inflation of the
century was coming to a climax.  He concluded that the universe is a
"free lunch" just as the American economy began its own gigantic free
lunch—a period of speculation which rewarded its wealthy participants
while actual production stagnated...

Throughout the decade, the rise of financial speculation in Wall
Street was shadowed by the rise of cosmologists' speculations in
Princeton, Cambridge, and elsewhere. As Witten and his colleagues were
acclaimed by the press as geniuses for theories that produced not a
single valid prediction, so men like Michael Milken.. earned not only
far greater fame but also incomes that peaked, in Milken's case, at
half a billion dollars per year for paper manipulations that added not
a single penny to the nation's production...

Obviously, the small-scale speculators of cosmology did not, in any
conscious way, imitate the large-scale speculators of Wall
Street. Yet, as in every other epoch, society's dominant ideas
permeated cosmology. If the wealthiest members of society earned
billions by mere manipulation of numbers, without building a single
factory or mill, it didn't seem too strange that scientific
reputations could be made with theories that have no more relation to
reality. If a tower of financial speculation could be built on
debt—the promise of future payment—then, similarly, a tower of
cosmological speculation could be built on promises of future
experimental confirmation...

[I]t is fundamental research—investigations whose findings don't seem
to be immediately useful—that suffer first when technological
development slows. Today those areas are clearly cosmology and
particle or high-energy physics—where the link between science and
technology, theory and human progress, has been broken as in
postclassical Greece, the stagnation of society has led to the return
of mathematical myths, a retreat from the problems of base matter to
the serene contemplation of numbers..










