# Alexander I

Forced to accept liberal constitutions modeled on that of
revolutionary France some thirty years earlier, the kings of both
[Spain and Naples] had reason to fear that they also faced the
same fate as the French king [..] beheaded
in 1793. Meanwhile the leaders of Europe's great powers--England,
Austria, and Prussia--quaked at the thought of unrest and
radicalism spreading across their borders, which had only
recently been stabilized by the defeat of Napoleon. They all
wanted to protect themselves and halt the tide of revolution.

In the midst of this general unease, Czar Alexander I of
Russia (1777-1825) suddenly proposed a plan that to many seemed a
cure more dangerous than the disease. The Russian army was the
largest and most feared in Europe; Alexander wanted to send it to
both Spain and Naples, crushing the two rebellions. In exchange
he would insist that the kings of both realms enact liberal
reforms that would grant their citizens greater freedoms, making
them more content and diluting their desire for revolution.

Alexander saw his proposal as more than a practical program to
safeguard Europe's monarchies; it was part of a great crusade, a
dream he had nurtured since the earliest days of his reign. A
deeply religious man who saw everything in terms of good and
evil, he wanted the monarchies of Europe to reform themselves and
create a kind of Christian brotherhood of wise, gentle rulers
with himself, the czar, at their helm. Although the powerful
considered Alexander a kind of Russian madman, many liberals and
even revolutionaries throughout Europe saw him as their friend
and protector, the rare leader sympathetic to their cause. It was
even rumored that he had made contacts with various men of the
left and had intrigued with them [..]

The czar went further with his idea: now he wanted a conference
of the major powers to discuss the future of Spain, Naples, and
Europe itself. The English foreign minister, Lord Castlereagh,
wrote letter after letter trying to dissuade him of the need for
the meeting. It was never wise to meddle in the affairs of other
countries, Castlereagh said; Alexander should leave England to
help stop the unrest in Spain, its close ally, while Austria did
the same for Naples.  Other ministers and rulers wrote to
Alexander as well, using similar arguments. It was critical to
show a united front against his plan. Yet one man--the Austrian
foreign minister, Prince Klemens von Metternich--responded to the
czar in a much different fashion, and it was shocking to say the
least.

Metternich was the most powerful and respected minister in Europe
[..] But Metternich was also something of an enigma--an elegant
courtier, he spoke little yet always seemed to get his way. Now
not only was he supporting Alexander's call for a conference, but
he also seemed open to the czar's other ideas. Perhaps he had
undergone a change of heart and was moving to the left in his
later years? In any event, he personally organized the conference
for October of that year in the Austrian-held city of Troppau, in
the modern-day Czech Republic.

Alexander was delighted: with Metternich on his side, he could
realize his ambitions and then some.  When he arrived in Troppau
[..] Metternich proposed they hold private meetings to discuss
the czar's ideas. For several days, and for hours on end, they
holed themselves up together in a room. The czar did most of the
talking; Metternich listened with his usual attentive air,
agreeing and nodding [..]

Several days into these discussions, Metternich finally confessed
to the czar that he, too, saw a moral danger brewing in
Europe. Godless revolution was the scourge of the time; giving in
to the radical spirit, showing any sign of compromise, would
eventually lead to destruction at the hands of these satanic
forces. During the Troppau conference, a mutiny had broken out in
a regiment of Russian guards; Metternich warned Alexander that
this was the first symptom of a revolutionary infection attacking
Russia itself. Thank God the czar, a pillar of moral strength,
would not give in. Alexander would have to serve as the leader of
this counterrevolutionary crusade. This was why Metternich had
become so excited by the czar's ideas about Naples and Spain and
how he had interpreted them.

The czar was swept up in Metternich's enthusiasm: together they
would stand firm against the radicals.  Somehow, though, the
result of their conversation was not a plan for Russia to invade
Naples and Spain; indeed, Alexander speculated instead that it
might not be the time to press the kings of those countries to
reform their governments--that would just weaken both
monarchs. For the time being, the leaders' energy should go into
halting the revolutionary tide. In fact, the czar began to repent
of some of his more liberal ideas, and he confessed as much to
Metternich. The conference ended with a statement of grand common
purpose among the powers--much of its language the czar's--and an
agreement that Austrian troops, not Russian ones, would return
the king of Naples to full power, then leave him to pursue the
policies of his choice [..].

In early 1821 another revolution broke out, this time in Piedmont,
the one Italian state outside Austrian control. The king was
forced to abdicate. In this instance Metternich welcomed Russian
intervention, and 90,000 Russian troops became reserves in an
Austrian army heading for Piedmont. A Russian military presence
so close to their borders greatly dampened the spirits of the
rebels and of their sympathizers throughout Italy--all those
leftists who had seen the czar as their friend and
protector. They thought that no more.

The Austrian army crushed the revolution within a few weeks. At
Metternich's request, the Russians politely withdrew their
forces. The czar was proud of his growing influence in Europe,
but somehow he had embarked on the very opposite of his original
plans for a crusade: instead of being in the forefront of the
fight for progress and reform, he had become a guardian of the
status quo, a conservative in the mold of Metternich
himself. Those around him could not understand how this had
happened [..].

Metternich managed to lure [Alexandar] into sending troops
against the rebellion in Piedmont. That action both committed
Alexander indeed to the conservative cause and alienated him
from the liberals of Europe. No longer could he spout vague,
ambiguous pronouncements on the left; he had finally taken
action, and it was in the opposite direction.

[Kissenger says] "This was the real achievement of Metternich's
policy, that it had killed Russian liberalism and achieved a
measure of domination over Austria's most dangerous rival in the
guise of submitting to him."

--

The moral of the story is: Dear Russians, so basically your boy was
had. That fool was played like an old bonjo. How stupid do you have to
be to be convinved of the exact opposite of your initial idea man?
What kind of dumb-ass idioacy is this? This guy not only manages to
kill liberalism in Russia, but also set it back in other parts of
Europe as well.

Russian people have many accomplishments, generated good literature and great science.  However it seems there is a peculiar way they  (s)elect their leaders. Just take a look at some of the more recent ones:  a mass murderer, a wide-eyed idealist -who cannot execute-, a bumbling drunk, and  now, a thug. And believe me, I was happy for Russians when the thug came in. Such seems to be the dynamics of political life in Russia.












