# The Fundamentals of Industrial Ideologies: Concentration

The rise of the market gave birth to yet another rule of Second Wave
civilization—the principle of concentration.

First Wave societies lived off widely dispersed sources of
energy. Second Wave societies became almost totally dependent on
highly concentrated deposits of fossil fuel.

But the Second Wave concentrated more than energy. It also
concentrated population, stripping the countryside of people and
relocating them in giant urban centers. It even concentrated
work. While work in First Wave societies took place everywhere—in the
home, in the village, in the fields—much of the work in Second Wave
societies was done in factories where thousands of laborers were drawn
together under a single roof.

Nor was it only energy and work that were concentrated. Writing in the
British social science journal New Society, Stan Cohen has pointed out
that, with minor exceptions, prior to industrialism "the poor were
kept at home or with relatives; criminals were fined, whipped or
banished from one settlement to another; the insane were kept in their
families, or supported by the community, if they were poor." All these
groups were, in short, dispersed throughout the community.

Industrialism revolutionized the situation. The early nineteenth
century, in fact, has been called the time of the Great
Incarcerations—when criminals were rounded up and concentrated in
prisons, the mentally ill rounded up and concentrated in "lunatic
asylums," and children rounded up and concentrated in schools, exactly
as workers were concentrated in factories.

Concentration occurred also in capital flows, so that Second Wave
civilization gave birth to the giant corporation and, beyond that, the
trust or monopoly. By the mid-1960s, the Big Three auto companies in
the United States produced 94 percent of all American cars. In Germany
four companies -—Volkswagen, Daimler-Benz, Opel (GM), and
Ford-Werke—together accounted for 91 percent of production. In France,
Renault, Citroen, Simca, and Peugeot turned out virtually 100
percent. In Italy, Fiat alone built 90 percent of all autos.

Similarly, in the United States 80 percent or more of aluminum, beer,
cigarettes, and breakfast foods were produced by four or five
companies in each field. In Germany 92 percent of all the plasterboard
and dyes, 98 percent of photo film, 91 percent of industrial sewing
machines, were produced by four or fewer companies in each respective
category. The list of highly concentrated industries goes on and on.

Socialist managers were also convinced that concentration of
production was "efficient." Indeed, many Marxist ideologues in the
capitalist countries welcomed the growing concentration of industry in
capitalist countries as a necessary step along the way to the ultimate
total concentration of industry under state auspices. Lenin spoke of
the "conversion of all citizens into workers and employees of one huge
'syndicate'—the whole state." Half a century later the Soviet
economist N. Lelyukhina, writing in Voprosy Ekonomiki could report
that "the USSR possesses the most concentrated industry in the world."

Whether in energy, population, work, education, or economic
organization, the concentrative principle of Second Wave civilization
ran deep—deeper, indeed, than any ideological differences between
Moscow and the West.














