# The Integrators

The question "Who runs things?" is a typically Second Wave
question. For until the industrial revolution there was little reason
to ask it.  Whether ruled by kings or shamans, warlords, sun gods, or
saints, people were seldom in doubt as to who held power over
them. The ragged peasant, looking up from the fields, saw the palace
or monastery looming in splendor on the horizon. He needed no
political scientist or newspaper pundit to solve the riddle of
power. Everyone knew who was in charge.

Wherever the Second Wave swept in, however, a new kind of power
emerged, diffuse and faceless. Those in power became the anonymous
"they." Who were "they"?

Industrialism, as we have seen, broke society into thousands of
interlocking parts—factories, churches, schools, trade unions,
prisons, hospitals, and the like. It broke the line of command between
church, state, and individual. It broke knowledge into specialized
disciplines. It broke jobs into fragments. It broke families into
smaller units. In doing so, it shattered community life and culture.

Somebody had to put things back together in a different form.

This need gave rise to many new kinds of specialists whose basic task
was integration. Calling themselves executives or administrators,
commissars, coordinators, presidents, vice-presidents, bureaucrats, or
managers, they cropped up in every business, in every government, and
at every level of society. And they proved indispensable. They were
the integrators.

They defined roles and allocated jobs. They decided who got what
rewards. They made plans, set criteria, and gave or withheld
credentials. They linked production, distribution, transport, and
communications. They set the rules under which organizations
interacted. In short, they fitted the pieces of the society together.
Without them the Second Wave system could never have run.

<a name='marx'/>

Marx, in the mid-nineteenth century, thought that whoever owned the
tools and technology—the "means of production"—would control
society. He argued that, because work was interdependent, workers
could disrupt production and seize the tools from their boses. Once
they owned the tools, they would rule society.

Yet history played a trick on him. For the very same inter-dependency
gave even greater leverage to a new group— those who orchestrated or
integrated the system. In the end it-was neither the owners nor the
workers who came to power. In both capitalist and socialist nations,
it was the integrators who rose to the top.

It was not ownership of the "means of production" that gave power. It
was control of the "means of integration". Let's see what that has
meant.

In business the earliest integrators were the factory proprietors, the
business entrepreneurs, the mill owners and ironmasters. The owner and
a few aides were usually able to coordinate the labor of a large
number of unskilled "hands" and to integrate the firm into the larger
economy.

Since, in that period, owner and integrator were one and the same, it
is not surprising that Marx confused the two and laid so heavy an
emphasis on ownership. As production grew more complex, however, and
the division of labor more specialized, business witnessed an
incredible proliferation of executives and experts who, came between
the boss and his workers.  Paperwork mushroomed. Soon in the larger
firms no individual, including the owner or dominant shareholder,
could even begin to understand the whole operation. The owner's
decisions were shaped, and ultimately controlled, by the specialists
brought in to coordinate the system. Thus a new executive elite arose
whose power rested no longer on ownership but rather on control of the
integration process.

As the manager grew in power, the stockholder grew less important. As
companies grew bigger, family owners sold out to larger and larger
groups of dispersed shareholders, few of whom knew anything about the
actual operations of the business. Increasingly, shareholders had to
rely on hired managers not merely to run the day-to-day affairs of the
company but even to set its long-range goals and strategies. [..]

All this had certain parallels in the socialist nations. As early as
1921 Lenin felt called upon to denounce his own Soviet
bureaucracy. Trotsky, in exile by 1930, charged that there were
already five to six million managers in a class that "does not engage
directly in productive labor, but administers, orders, commands,
pardons and punishes." The means of production might belong to the
state, he charged, "But the state . . . 'belongs' to the bureaucracy."
In the 1950's Milovan Djilas, in The New Class, attacked the growing
power of the managerial elites in Yugoslavia. Tito, who imprisoned
Djilas, himself complained about "technocracy, bureaucracy, the class
enemy." And fear of managerialism was the central theme in Mao's China
[1].

Under socialism as well as capitalism, therefore, the integrators took
effective power. For without them the parts of the system could not
work together. The "machine" would not run.

Integrating a single business, or even a whole industry, was only a
small part of what had to be done. Modern industrial society, as we
have seen, developed a host of organizations, from labor unions and
trade associations to churches, schools, health clinics, and
recreational groups, all of which had to work within a framework of
predictable rules. Laws were needed. Above all, the info-sphere,
socio-sphere, and techno-sphere had to be brought into alignment with
one another.

Out of this driving need for the integration of  Second Wave civilization came the biggest coordinator of all—the  integrational engine of the system: big government. It is the system's  hunger for integration that explains the relentless rise of big  government in every Second Wave
society.

Again and again political demagogues arose to call for smaller
government. Yet, once in office, the very same leaders expanded rather
than contracted the size of government. This contradiction between
rhetoric and real life becomes understandable the moment we recognize
that the transcendent aim of all Second Wave governments has been to
construct and maintain industrial civilization. Against this
commitment, all lesser differences faded.  Parties and politicians
might squabble over other issues, but on this they were in tacit
agreement And big government was part of their unspoken program
regardless of the tune they sang, because industrial societies depend
on government to perform essential integrational tasks.

In the words of political columnist Clayton Fritchey, the United
States federal government never ceased to grow, even under three
recent Republican administrations, for the simple reason that not even
Houdini could dismantle it without serious and harmful consequences.

Free marketeers have argued that governments interfere with
business. But left to private enterprise alone, industrialization
would have come much more slowly—if, indeed, it could have come at
all. Governments quickened the development of the railroad. They built
harbors, roads, canals, and highways. They operated postal services
and built or regulated telegraph, telephone, and broadcast systems.

They wrote commercial codes and standardized markets. They applied
foreign policy pressures and tariffs to aid industry. They drove
farmers off the land and into the industrial labor supply. They
subsidized energy and advanced technology, often through military
channels. At a thousand levels, governments assumed the integrative
tasks that others could not, or would not, perform.

For government was the great accelerator.  Because of its coercive
power and tax revenues, it could do things that private enterprise
could not afford to undertake. Governments could "hot up" the
industrialization process by stepping in to fill emerging gaps in the
system—before it became possible or profitable for private companies
to do so. Governments could perform "anticipatory integration'.

By setting up mass education systems, governments not only helped to
machine youngsters for their future roles in the industrial work force
(hence, in effect, subsidizing industry) but also simultaneously
encouraged the spread of the nuclear family form. By relieving the
family of educational and other traditional functions, governments
accelerated the adaptation of family structure to the needs of the
factory system. At many different levels, therefore, governments
orchestrated the complexity of Second Wave civilization.

Not surprisingly, as integration grew in importance both the substance
and style of government changed. Presidents and prime ministers, for
example, came to see themselves primarily as managers rather than as
creative social and political leaders. In personality and manner they
became almost interchangeable with the men who ran the large companies
and production enterprises. While offering the obligatory lip service
to democracy and social justice, the Nixons, Carters, Thatchers,
Brezhnevs, Giscards, and Ohiras of the industrial world rode into
office by promising little more than efficient management.

Across the board, therefore, in socialist as well as capitalist
industrial societies, the same pattern emerged—big companies or
production organizations and a huge governmental machine. And rather
than workers seizing the means of production, as Marx predicted, or
capitalists retaining power, as Adam Smith's followers might have
preferred, a wholly new force arose to challenge both. The technicians
of power seized the "means of integration" and, with it, the reins of
social, cultural, political, and economic control. Second Wave
societies were ruled by the integrators.

When workers, for example, first fought for the right to organize
unions, they were harassed, prosecuted for conspiracy, followed by
company spies, or beaten up by police and goon squads. They were
outsiders, unrepresented or inadequately represented in the
system. Once unions established themselves, they gave rise to a new
group of integrators—the labor establishment—whose members, rather
than simply representing the workers, mediated between them and then
elites in business and government. The George Meanys and Georges
Seguys of the world, despite their rhetoric, became themselves key
members of the integrational elite. The fake union leaders in the
U.S.S.R. and Eastern Europe never were anything but technicians of
power.

---

[1] Mao, leading the world's biggest First Wave nation, repeatedly
warned against the rise of managerial elites and saw this as a
dangerous concomitant of traditional industrialism.















