# Week 28

I like Twitter's hashtag feature; it allows ppl to cluster around
topics quickly. This is especially useful during events &
conferences. When people visit a conference they start tagging their
messages related to that conference with a hashtag, say #expo2011,
then a follower can click on that tag and gets other messages under
that tag.

No central authority defines the tag, it is not centralized. The tag
simply emerges out of the interactions of people, it's not
synchronized. It's not standardized, any word can be a tag, not
concentrated either because a tag can be created by one, many people,
and mushroom out to entire Internet, or not.

There it is -- the fall of modernity summarized in a simple hashtag.

---

"The Shuttle story should really be titled “Lost in Space”. About
210 billion dollar went towards a programme born of fantasy. The story
came to an end because the American government finally accepted what
experts realised at the beginning: strip away the drama of manned
space travel, and the Shuttle is an expensive and complicated way to
provide what should be a cheap and simple service [..].

“Apollo was a matter of going to the moon and building whatever
technology could get us there,” writes the space historian Walter
McDougall. “The Shuttle was a matter of building a technology and
going wherever it could take us.” But where did it take us? After 133
missions, thousand of orbits and millions of miles, our old friend the
Shuttle has taken us back to where we began 30 years ago. Despite all
the excitement, drama and tragedy, we’re no nearer an answer about
what to do in space"

---

Wired: "Well-known coder and activist Aaron Swartz was arrested
Tuesday, charged with violating federal hacking laws for downloading
millions of academic articles from a subscription database service
that MIT had given him access to. If convicted, Swartz faces up to 35
years in prison and a 1 million dollar fine.Swartz, the 24-year-old
executive director of Demand Progress, has a history of downloading
massive data sets, both to use in research and to release public
domain documents from behind paywalls. Swartz, who was aware of the
investigation, turned himself in Tuesday.My $0.02? People should thank
this guy rather than jail him. Dont Feds have better things to do than
chasing someone who is trying to free stuff / research that was
produced mostly by public funds to begin with?I wonder what the public
would think, vote on, if freeing research was put on a
referendum. Public officials or lawmakers deciding on this and that
does not count because we all know representative system does not mean
democracy.Paywalls around knowledge is wrong, unproductive and just
plain immoral"

---

Rome Killed Jesus

"The story begins when the Galilean rebel Jesus rides into Jerusalem on
a donkey, deliberately fulfilling a prophecy in the Hebrew Bible about
the coming of the Messiah. [..] The next day Jesus raids the Temple,
the heart of the Jewish religion, and attacks money-changers for
defiling a holy place. The leaders of the Jewish establishment realise
that he threatens their power, and so do the Romans, who fear that
Jesus has the charisma to lead a guerrilla uprising against Imperial
Rome.

Caiaphas was a supreme political operator and one of the most
influential men in Jerusalem [..]. Jesus threatened Caiaphas's
authority [..]. Caiaphas' power base was the Sanhedrin, the supreme
council of Jews which controlled civil and religious law [..]
Sanhedrin only ruled because the Romans allowed them to and the way to
keep the Romans happy was to maintain order in society. Caiaphas
himself was a Roman appointment, so he needed to keep cosy with the
governor, Pilate, if he wanted to stay in power and preserve his
luxurious way of life"

---

FT: "Murdoch-bashing has, until very recently, generally been a
disreputable activity, chiefly engaged in by the envious, the
far-left, and the commercially uncompetitive, all almost incapable of
disinterested comment – but not always. It is, on this subject at
last, a time for truth. For decades Britain’s establishment professed
to despise Mr Murdoch but appeased and grovelled to him, (“I
thoroughly disapprove of Rupert, but I quite like him,” was the
tedious refrain), as when it became clear that most of opinionated
London expected him to prevail over the Daily Telegraph in the price
war that he launched in 1993 [..]

Although his personality is generally quite agreeable, Mr Murdoch has
no loyalty to anyone or anything except his company. He has difficulty
keeping friendships; rarely keeps his word for long; is an exploiter
of the discomfort of others; and has betrayed every political leader
who ever helped him in any country, except Ronald Reagan and perhaps
Tony Blair. All his instincts are downmarket; he is not only a tabloid
sensationalist; he is a malicious myth-maker, an assassin of the
dignity of others and of respected institutions, all in the guise of
anti-elitism. He masquerades as a pillar of contemporary, enlightened
populism in Britain and sensible conservatism in the US, though he has
been assiduously kissing the undercarriage of the rulers of Beijing
for years. His notions of public entertainment and civic values are
enshrined in the cartoon television series The Simpsons: all public
officials are crooks and the public is an ignorant
lumpenproletariat. There is nothing illegal in this, and it has
amusing aspects, but it is unbecoming someone who has been the subject
of such widespread deference and official preferments"

---

Reading about Aaron Swartz [..] I was also reminded of my own attempts
at similar work, collecting and analyzing journal articles, patents,
and various forms of metadata. I’ve lost count of how many hours I’ve
spent sitting in basements of academic buildings, breaking federal
laws in the pursuit of answers. And I was reminded of my colleagues
who still spend their days painstakingly scraping data off the
web–sometimes legally sometimes not–the name of academic inquiry [..]

None of us want to break the law. It’s simply that we don’t have a
choice.  The mechanisms for sharing academic discourse are
broken. They barely even function as systems for connecting interested
parties within existing disciplines. Ask just about anyone who spends
their time writing or consuming scholarly work and you will hear a
litany of complaints about how poorly suited the academic publishing
industry is to modern day collaboration [..].

Tim Berners-Lee invented the web to solve this very problem. Twenty
years later it allows us to do almost everything imaginable–except get
unfettered access to scholarly communication.

It is not technology that holds us back.

Aaron’s arrest should be a wake up call to universities–evidence of
how fundamentally broken this core piece of their architecture remains
despite decades of progress in advancing communication and
collaboration.

---

The state of our mathematics defines the state of our
civilization. Before NASA could go to the moon, a crucial mathematical
advancement was needed. The so-called Three-Body Problem calculates
the path orbiting regularly around two objects, such as a spacecraft
going between the Earth and the Moon.

The complexity of solving this problem stems from the fact that all
three bodies pull on each other while moving, a total of six
interactions. The problem is intractible in analytical form, that is,
one cannot find a clean, algebraic solution. Mathematician Richard
Arenstorf solved the problem in a special form, received the NASA
Medal of Scientific Achievement. This orbit is the basis of a path
going to the Moon from the Earth, such as the United States Apollo
program.

Before leaving NASA [..] Arenstorf [also] mapped out an emergency
rescue orbit, which was used in the Apollo 13 incident, in which a
catastrophic malfunction forced aborting the Moon landing, [..] the
astronauts ultimately returned safely to Earth without a major course
adjustment.

---

Here is proof that we don't need spaceships, lasers, and giant robots
for good scifi. The Man From Earth is built on one scifi assumption,
that a caveman becomes immortal and is still living among us
today. This basic framework is naturally ripe for the scriptwriters to
explore and they do explore it skillfully. The movie is about the
caveman's story being told through his eyes and we roll through
hundreds years of history, culture, religion which is a fascinating
and very personalized journey. Surprisingly, all of the storytelling
takes place in one room. TMFE also successfully creates a campfire
mood which is fitting -- given that the central character is a
caveman.[SPOILER] But that is not all. We find out caveman became many
things over the years, he studied with the Buddha, and then he became
Jesus! My favorite part of the movie is when he butts heads with Rome:
"[he came] into the Roman Empire. He didn't like what they became--A
giant killing machine. He went to the near east thinking, "[w]hy not
pass the Buddha's teachings on [..] So he tried. One dissident against
Rome? Rome won".The movie is apparently on code, since Western worlds
cultural tug-of-war is between Rome and Jesus, militarism and piece.

![](the-man-from-earth.jpg)

---

"A Google employee Steve Yegge quits his project on stage, and
announces decision to delve into more math and science. Great"

[[-]](https://youtu.be/vKmQW_Nkfk8)

---

\#Google+

Google's chances of overtaking Facebook are not slim. Yes apps like
Facebook live on the "network effect"; the more people use the app,
the more useful the app becomes, hence it pulls more people in as a
result, on it goes. The # of users create a "barrier to entry" for
this market. On the other hand, FB doesnt have a lot of algorithmic
add-on, it's a simple database app. As a result another big company
with its own huge user base who has already figured out how to work on
gigantic scale (hint: Google) can overtake Facebook. I'd rather they
did actually. This space needs some innovation, and I'm tired of
maintaining multiple accounts for multiple needs, "friends" are in
place, "people I'd like watch" are somewhere else, and email in yet
another. Google is also more developer friendly. If I ever come up
with some algorithmic add-on for this space, I'd rather see it
deployed through Google's services than Facebook's.

Note: It was kinda fun to watch Zuckerberg trying to respond with its
own video thing -- brutha was sweatin' !!

---

The mere suggestion of it makes me shudder.

"My friend and former labmate Marcio von Muhlen recently wrote a
thought-provoking piece on why we need a Github of science. My take on
his central argument: our centuries-old system of for-profit academic
journals and peer review could be vastly improved if it included
aspects of modern Open Source software publishing tools like
Github. For example, instead of relying on the opinion of two or three
anonymous (and possibly unqualified) referees to determine whether my
research belongs in a high-impact journal, I could post my paper on
the “Github of science” and the entire community of my peers could
weigh in on its strengths and weaknesses. Like quality hits in a
Google search, well-regarded research rises to the top and is rewarded
by additional visibility, and weaker research sinks to the bottom
[..].

I’ve been thinking about a backwards approach [..] How horribly broken
would Github become if we recast it in the image of Reed-Elsevier,
Springer, John Wiley and Sons, and the rest of the for-profit
scientific publishing companies?

First, we would need to put some locks on the doors. Access to our new
Github is only available to subscribers, and it isn’t cheap. If your
school or employer doesn’t pay for access, you’re probably out of
luck. If you’re an unemployed coder using Github to learn a trendy new
programming language, or a hobbyist coder interested in contributing
to a project on Github, you’re not welcome anymore.

Actually, it’s a little more complicated than that. There’s one
subscription for Github Ruby, another subscription for Github Python,
another subscription for Github Java, and so on [these are all
different comp languages, it's stupid to differentiate between
them]. If you have a Github C subscription but you’d like to browse
Github C++, get your credit card out"

---

Stable my ass..

This comment also pissed off Baradai at the time, and he lamented in
an interview to Newsweek if I remember correctly. Look here is the
problem, a sec state's coworkers are other government officials as
well as his / her own. You develop relations with them, and want to
keep working with them. That's natural. But this is not revolutionary
material, not by a long shot. Plus, US governments foreign policy has
always been an extension of its trade policy. Put all these together,
while State Department looks less aggressive compared to *some other*
US agencies and departments, it still is responsible for furthering US
agenda abroad, however that agenda is defined by a central,
concentrated government. Period. We need to remember what ex sec state
Colin Powell told a French official before the Iraq War: "I am not who
you think I am".

That actually could've been the title of this post.

"[ Jan 25, 2011] U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton also said that
the United States believed that the government of Egyptian President
Hosni Mubarak, in power for three decades, was stable [..]"

---

The popular TV show Entourage is back. The season premiere ends with a
great remix of an Eminem
[song](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nyNFMdoLzxE) btw, they play it
starting at time index 5:09.

---

The Murdoch thing, tho a nice development, seems like a well planned
move to pressure Reps in US to agree on raising the debt ceiling (by
pressuring Fox News, and conservatives). Goal #1 for The Integrators
in US is the ability to get into more debt, so the charade can
continue indefinitely. In their minds, whoever can get into more debt
wins because at time t, they will always have the edge compared to
other countries. You can spend more on military, R&D, pull more
people, whatever, just because you are spending more than your
equals. And the cycle continues. Believe it or not, living beyond your
means is a strategic advantage.

But.. the music will have to stop at one point. The system is rotting
from within.

---

The Economist: “A SAMURAI would never write software!” barked a
senior executive at one of Japan’s biggest electronics firms, as
drinks flowed at a dinner party. His view is widely held in
Japan. Monozukuri (making things) is macho. From sword-forging in
feudal times to machines and microchips today, real men toil
tirelessly to make things you can see. [..] But [..] such attitudes
are looking increasingly out of date. Writing business software is now
a growing business in Japan. The country’s large electronics companies
are buying into the sector [..]

Software firms typically make fatter profit margins than hardware
firms. The best ones easily hit 30%; electronics firms struggle to
reach 5%. The software business needs fewer people and less capital;
handy for a country with a shrinking population and tight-fisted
banks. Jobs at big electronics firms are scarce, and the work is
sometimes boring [..].

Japanese code has tended to be inferior, says William Saito, an
entrepreneur who sold his software company to Microsoft years
ago. This is because it mirrored the shortcomings of Japan’s business
culture: it was written in a hierarchical way that outsiders would
have trouble building on, when the trend in America and Europe was
exactly the opposite. A transition is under way, however"

---

It's useless to badger the US public with doom and gloom scenarios,
and/or begging them to pressure officials. The public's current mood
is one of apathy. They simply do not care. When officials say "raising
the debt ceiling" the public hears "we want more money", and this is
not a message that will get them out of their chairs to do anything. I
feel similarly. I supported the first bail-out. I do not support
raising of the debt ceiling now. Let the chips fall where they may.

---

Toffler: "We think of bureaucracy as a way of grouping people. But it is also a
way of grouping "facts." A firm neatly cut into departments according
to function, market, region, or product is after all a collection of
cubbyholes in which specialized information and personal experience
are stored. Engineering data go to the engineers; sales data to the
sales department [..].

Until the arrival of computers, this "cubbyholism" was the main way in
which knowledge was organized for wealth production. And the wondrous
beauty of the system was that, at first, it appeared to be endlessly
expandable. In theory, one could have an infinity of cubbyholes.

In practice, however, companies and governments are now discovering
that there are strict limits to this kind of specialization. The
limits first became apparent in the public sector as government
agencies grew to monstrous proportions, reaching a point of no
return. Listen, for example, to the lament of John F. Lehman, Jr., a
recent U.S. Navy Secretary.

In the Pentagon, Lehman confessed to his colleagues, so many
specialized cubbyhole-units had sprung up that it is "impossible for
me or anyone at this table to accurately describe. . . the system with
which, and within which, we must operate.""

---

Newsweek: "[Defense Secretary] Gates is also looking to cut the
Pentagon’s civilian bureaucracy, which has added a thousand new staff
since 9/11. Around the time of the attacks, Rumsfeld reckoned that 17
layers of officialdom lay between him and a line officer. A recent
internal study, Gates says, found that “in some cases the gap between
me and an action officer may be as high as 30 layers.” (In 1948, when
the Cold War began, the secretary of defense had a deputy and a staff
of three supervising 50 employees; today, he has 26 political
appointees running a staff of 3,000.) The outcome, says Gates, is “a
bureaucracy which has the fine motor skills of a dinosaur.”"

---

How Things Change

“The fact that we are here today to debate raising America’s debt
limit is a sign of leadership failure. It is a sign that the
U.S. government can’t pay its own bills. It is a sign that we now
depend on ongoing financial assistance from foreign countries to
finance our government’s reckless fiscal policies. … Increasing
America’s debt weakens us domestically and internationally. Leadership
means that ‘the buck stops here.’ Instead, Washington is shifting the
burden of bad choices today onto the backs of our children and
grandchildren. America has a debt problem and a failure of
leadership. Americans deserve better.”

– Barack Obama, 2006

---
