# Drugs, Immigrants

G. Friedman, The Next Decade

Compounding the turbulence along the border are the law of supply and
demand and the cost of goods applied to the American appetite for
narcotics. Heroin, cocaine, and marijuana, the drugs of choice,
originate as extremely low-cost agricultural products—weeds,
essentially, that require almost no cultivation. Because the drugs are
illegal in the United States, normal market forces don’t apply. The
legal risk of selling drugs drives efficient competitors out of the
market, enabling criminal organizations to create regional monopolies
through violence that further suppresses competition, which further
inflates the cost of the drugs.

Illegality means that merely moving a product a few hundred miles from
Mexico to Los Angeles will increase the price to the user by extremely
high multiples. Official estimates of the amount of money flowing into
Mexico from the sales of narcotics run from 25 billion dollar to 40
billion dollars a year. Unofficial estimates place the amount much
higher, but even assuming that the 40 billion dollar figure is
correct, the effective amount is staggeringly high. When you look at
the revenue from a product, it is not the amount you sell it for that
matters—it’s the profit margin. For a manufactured product, such as
the electronic components that Mexico exports to the United States
legally, a profit margin of 10 percent would be quite high. Let’s
assume that this is the profit margin for all legal imports from
Mexico into the United States. Mexico’s exports of 130 billion dollar
would then generate about 13 billion dollar in profit.

The profit margin on drug sales is enormously higher than 10 percent,
because the inherent cost of the commodity is extremely low. Marijuana
needs no processing, and processing costs on heroin and cocaine are
insignificant. A reasonable and even conservative estimate for the
profit margin on narcotics is 90 percent, which means that the 40
billion dollar from the illegal trade generates a profit of about $36
billion. Drugs generate free cash, then, at a level almost three times
greater than all of Mexico’s 13 billion dollar in legal exports.[..]

The American economy is too integrated with Mexico’s ever to allow a
disruption of legal commerce, which means that large numbers of trucks
will be moving between the United States and Mexico indefinitely. The
volume of traffic is too high for agents at the border to inspect all
cargoes, and therefore even if the border is walled off, both illegal
aliens and drugs will continue to slip through at international
crossings and elsewhere. Given the low cost of the narcotics before
they reach the United States, the interception of cargoes has very
little effect on trade. Cargoes are readily replaced with little
impact on aggregate revenue.

It should be much easier to stop illegal immigrants than drugs,
because it is easy to detect immigrants once they are in the
country. The simplest means of doing this is to institute a national
identity card with special paper and embedded codes that make it
extremely difficult to forge. No one could be employed until his or
her employer first cleared the card via the sort of system currently
used for credit card transactions. Any alien without a card would be
deported. Any employer who hired him or her would be arrested and
charged with a felony.

But this simple method is highly unlikely to be employed [..] deeper
reason this relatively easy step won’t be taken: the segment of
society that benefits from large numbers of low-cost workers is
greater and more influential than the segment harmed by it. Therefore,
as with the Mexican government and drugs, the best U.S. strategy is to
appear to be doing everything possible to stop the movement of
immigrants while making certain that these efforts fail. This has been
the American strategy on illegal immigrants for many years, creating a
tension between short- and mid-term economic interests and long-term
political interests. The long-term problem is the shift in
demographics—and in potential loyalties—in the borderland. The
president must choose between these options, and his only rational
course is to allow the future to tend to itself. Given the forces
interested in maintaining the status quo, any president who took the
steps needed to stop illegal immigration would rapidly lose
power. [..]

Similarly, the drug issue has a relatively simple solution that will
not be implemented: legalization. If drugs were legalized and steps
were taken to flood the country with narcotics, the street price would
plunge, the economics of smuggling would collapse, and the violence
along the border driven by all the money to be made would decline
precipitously. Along with that there would be a decline in street
violence among drug addicts seeking to steal enough money for a
fix.[..] No significant political coalition in the United States is
prepared to embrace the principle of crushing the illegal drug trade
by legalization. So, like national identity cards, legalization simply
won’t fly, for internal ideological reasons.
