# Production, Know-How, GDP, Globalization

Hidalgo is a statistical physicist, who wrote *Why Information
Grows*. He uses a country's diversity / uniqueness of exported
products as a stand-in for the knowledge networks present in that
country, then uses a modeling jujutsu to find the economic complexity
index (ECI) of a country. In summary, comparative advantage is false;
what matters is the diversity of products, the exact opposite of
comparative advantage style specialization on products. Because
diversity allows the invention of more products, a country gets
richer.

I replicated Hidalgo's research [here](hidalgo.html), data, Python code
included. The jujitsi move is excellent. Economists, take note. All I
hear from them is "if this goes up, that comes down, this comes down
the other thing goes up". Angle of the dangle is inversely
proportional to the heat of the
meat. [Eheheheh](https://youtu.be/F3NtIgunIc4?t=52).Seriously. More
physicist in economics! Economists apparently have physics envy, so if
there are more physicist in economics, they are already physicist,
they won't have any envy.

Hidalgo debunks many other theories of development theories -
institutional quality, human capital (in terms of years spent in
education) are not as important as ECI. Globalization is not a
cure-all. Your country might be one one piece in a sophisticated
pipeline, so you are "globalized", but that doesn't give you any
leg-up in anything. I am not talking single country / company to
produce a car from scratch - I am saying a country must have, in
different companies / regions, all pieces that can combine to a car
because that means this country has a level of productive know-how,
tacit knowledge that can produce high-margin products. Especially the
products highest in product complexity list list needs to exist in a
country, one company, or many. But same country.

It all comes down to what a fresh-out-of-college (or college dropout)
budding enterpreneur needs. If you were such a person, had an idea on,
say, a new car battery, would you be better off being in proximity to
defense contractors, solar panel, drone makers, or rice farmers, and
bottlers of Coca Cola?

USA is in good shape in this sense. Sure there are income
inequalities, no universal healthcare, but these problems are
technically easy to fix.

Tacit knowledge is key. As someone who worked / works on transfering
massive knowledge to others I can attest to this. We know more than we
can tell. There is a certain .. way an expert approaches problems, the
way you expect certain issues, others not, when you get gung-ho, when
not, the order you expect things to occur, how much relevant info you
hold in your head vs. when you look things up, how we use tools, when
we drop them, or develop them from scratch - these are things that are
incredibly hard to teach, Â because I guess they are intricately coded,
in a complex graph form in our heads or something -any attempt to
textualize it means introducing a certain flattening, and this
knowledge is not that. It ain't flat.

Tacit knowledge can only be transferred while working side-by-side,
this is another (perhaps bigger) reason why local networks are
critical.

Here is another [paper](../../2020/07/austerity.md) that says
"moreover, it seems that trade openness and population growth do not
have a statistically significant impact on growth"


[From *The Atlas of Economic Complexity*] "The amount of knowledge
that is required to make a product can vary enormously from one good
to the next. Most modern products require more knowledge than what a
single person can hold. [..] Accumulating productive knowledge is
difficult. For the most part, it is not available in books or on the
Internet. It is embedded in brains and human networks. It is tacit and
hard to transmit and acquire. It comes from years of experience more
than from years of schooling. Productive knowledge, therefore, cannot
be learned easily like a song or a poem. It requires structural
changes. Just like learning a language requires changes in the
structure of the brain, developing a new industry requires changes in
the patterns of interaction inside an organization or society.[..]

*The Atlas of Economic Complexity* attempts to measure the amount of
productive knowledge that each country holds. Our measure of
productive knowledge can account for the enormous income differences
between the nations of the world and has the capacity to predict the
rate at which countries will grow. In fact, it is much more predictive
than other well-known development indicators, such as those that
attempt to measure competitiveness, governance and education.

Consider the case of Singapore and Pakistan. The population of
Pakistan is 34 times larger than that of Singapore. At market prices
their GDPs are similar since Singapore is 38 times richer than
Pakistan in per capita terms. Under the classification we use in this
Atlas, they both export a similar number of different products, about
133.

How can products tell us about the conspicuous differences in the
level of development that exist between these two countries?  Pakistan
exports products that are on average exported by 28 other countries
(placing Pakistan in the 60 th percentile of countries in terms of the
average ubiquity of their products), while Singapore exports products
that are exported on average by 17 other countries (1 st
percentile). Moreover, the products that Singapore exports are
exported by highly diversified countries, while those that Pakistan
exports are exported by poorly diversified countries. Our mathematical
approach exploits these second, third and higher order differences to
create measures that approximate the amount of productive knowledge
held in each of these countries"

Question

The idea of comparative advantage says country A should specialize on
product X, country B on product Y. They trade with eachother and both
would be better for it.

Wrong

Hidalgo's analysis says both countries should produce (in varying
amount of course) product X and Y, because IMO only then can a third
inventor, seeing and making use of a richer manufacturing base
producing X and Y can come up with product Z.
