# The Nordic Theory of Everything

Anu Partanen, from the book with the same name

Clinton ... addressed the woman with orange hair sitting next to him
on the stage. “There’s a huge debate going on in America now,” he
said. It was September 2010, nearly two years since the financial
crisis began.... “About what it takes to be a successful country in
the twenty-first century. This debate is also going on in many other
countries around the world.” ...  “And,” Clinton had said, this woman
“has a country that consistently finishes in the top five in all
global rankings on the quality of education, the way the economy
works, the distribution of wealth, and opportunity.” ...

In Finland, in the decade-plus of my working life as a newspaper and
magazine writer and editor, I’d lived a comfortable middle-class
existence, as had all my friends. I’d always had enough disposable
income after taxes to eat out, travel, and enjoy myself, as well as a
nice cushion to set aside in savings every year besides. I’d never had
to pay extra for things like health insurance, and medical treatment
of any kind had only ever cost me small sums, if anything. If I were
ever to get seriously ill in Finland, not only would I be treated at
no significant cost to me, I would also get up to a year of paid sick
leave with job security, and more help after that if I needed it. [..]

Among the less privileged, meanwhile, American marriage appeared to be
in a state of full-blown crisis. A much-discussed study had found that
among white people in their thirties and forties, less than half of
those with only a high-school education were tying the knot. Critics
debated the causes of this reality, but what was remarkable to me was
that this discussion, too, ultimately circled around the financial
axis [..] In America, if you were contemplating getting married and
starting a family, you first needed to think very carefully about your
finances. How much debt did you have in student loans? Could you
afford health insurance? For that matter, how much would it cost just
to give birth? The maternity benefits of different health-insurance
plans varied dramatically. I was stunned when I learned of a young
couple who had health insurance, and nevertheless had ended up owing
the hospital twenty thousand dollars for the birth of their baby. [..]

One of the most heartbreaking episodes I witnessed after moving to the
United States involved an American acquaintance who was battling
cancer. To make matters even worse, it was clear that the person’s
domestic relationship was fraying at the same time. The peculiarly
American twist on the story was this: If the couple split up, the
young cancer patient, with many months of expensive treatment ahead,
would be left without health insurance, since it was being provided
through the domestic partner’s employer. The unhappy relationship
seemed to last much longer than it should have, hurting everyone
involved far more than necessary. The trauma of the situation had been
vastly multiplied simply because of the total dependency of everyone
in the equation on the employer. [..]

Far less tragic than the story of my friend with cancer [..] were the
cases of people taking a job they didn’t really want, simply because
they needed the health insurance. Others hesitated to change jobs, or
decided not to make an otherwise positive career move, because they’d
have to give up their health coverage. Less obvious than the matter of
health care, but also insidious, was the hesitancy of practically
every American I met to take their full allotment of vacation time, as
allowed by their employer, no matter how paltry. Never mind actually
leaving work every day at five.

Gradually it dawned on me how much people in America depended on their
employers for all sorts of things that were unimaginable to me:
medical care, health savings accounts, and pension contributions, to
name the most obvious. The result was that employers ended up having
far more power in the relationship than the employee. In America
jeopardizing your relationship with your employer carried personal
risks that extend far beyond the workplace [..]

Americans have a reputation for changing jobs often, but as a result
of their dependence on employer-provided benefits, my American
acquaintances all seem far more beholden to their bosses than the
Nordics I know. Americans hardly take any parental leave, and clearly
feel obligated to work extremely long hours, with little say over how
these hours are arranged. By contrast, I had worked a number of
high-pressure jobs as a journalist in Finland [..] it wasn’t even in
the realm of possibility that all my health care could be compromised
by anything to do with my job.

By now I was used to hearing the Nordic countries dismissed as
“socialist nanny states.” But ironically it was here in America that
businesses trying to manufacture products and make a buck had somehow
gotten saddled with the nanny’s job of taking care of their employees’
health. Surely, I thought, Milton Friedman, the great free-market
economist, must be turning in his grave! From a Nordic perspective, it
seemed ludicrous to burden for-profit companies with the
responsibility of providing employees with such a fundamental,
complicated, and expensive social service.

People in the United States were aware of this contradiction, of
course, and in discussions of the American business landscape, experts
often pointed to the burdens that health-care obligations placed on
companies, especially on small businesses. But no one seemed to be
talking about the other side of the coin: the unhealthy dependence on
employers that this creates among employees receiving, or hoping to
receive, these benefits. It was an old-fashioned and oppressive sort
of dependence, it seemed to me, completely at odds with the modern era
of individual liberty and opportunity.

The fast-paced, stressful nature of modern life in a globalized world
might be inevitable, but leaving people to muddle through it by
falling back on old-fashioned family- and village-based support
structures that no longer functioned the way they once did—that was by
no means inevitable. The more I experienced life in the United States,
the more I began to think that what Nordic societies [..] had
succeeded in pushing past outdated forms of social dependency, and
that they had taken modernity to its logical conclusion.

References

[1] [Video](https://youtu.be/6Pm0Mn0-jYU?t=371)

