# TJD

[The Justice Democrats] organization, formed as a result of the 2016
United States presidential election, has a stated goal of reforming
the Democratic Party by running "a unified campaign to replace every
corporate-backed member of Congress and rebuild the Democratic Party
from scratch" starting in the 2018 Congressional midterm elections.

The Justice Democrats have been described as attempting to create a
left-wing populist movement analogous to the right-wing Tea Party
movement. Co-founder Kyle Kulinski describes Justice Democrats (and
himself) as pushing for social democratic ideas, particularly a system
similar to the Scandinavian model. In a segment about an international
poll on happiness, Kyle says, "Notice anything about [the countries on
the top of the list]? First of all, the overwhelming majority of them
are the Scandinavian countries, the Nordic countries. Which, I don't
know, we talk about on this show maybe more than anybody else talks
about them on the planet. [...] It turns out social democracy is
wildly popular. [...] In other words, it's a healthy mix of socialism
and capitalism, and you regulate the capitalism to make sure there's
no abuses, and you have a rising standard of living and everybody's
happy."

The Justice Democrats claim to hold views that are agreed upon by most
Americans, but deemed 'politically impossible' by the current
political establishment because of systemic political corruption. They
claim that as all campaigns need donations, the candidates who hold
policies viewed as unfavorable by corporate interests and wealthy
individuals will be denied funding, and that thereby the system in
actuality ends up forcing politicians to change their policies to suit
the current business environment.
