# De Vany, Exercise, Diet

From *The New Evolution Diet*

Why do we get fat and sick? They are odd questions from an
evolutionary perspective, because ancestral humans were not
overweight.  Nor were they ill in the ways we become in our civilised
world today. We began getting fat and suffering new diseases once we
ceased to live as hunter-gatherers and instead became farmers. ...

The modern human genome is about 50,000 to 100,000 years old.  Little
has changed during that time except for some variation in genes that
are localised, population-specific adaptations to disease, and some
recent ones that involve nutrition, such as the ability to metabolise
the sugar lactose contained in milk.  I began to look into the
relationship between the original human diet that was consumed by
hunter-gatherers and our genetic make-up. I focused on 40,000 BC ,
when fully modern humans emerged.  The diet they consumed back then
was strikingly similar to what my family and I had developed as we
attempted to control diabetes.  The current debate over fat versus
carbohydrate in the diet is anchored totally in the modern idea of
eating.  This is really an argument over fads, because virtually every
modern diet is just a small variation on bad nutritional thinking. ...

<a name="fast"/>

Contemporary hunter-gatherers have legendary endurance even though
they eat little carbohydrate and certainly do not carbo-load before an
event the way modern athletes do. Members of the Aché tribe of
Paraguay expend 4,000 to 5,000 calories a day foraging, with meat and
fat as their primary fuels (they also eat high-energy tubers that make
a small contribution to their intake). The Inuit Eskimo eat a diet of
fat and protein with almost no carbohydrate. They hunt and fish in
cold, difficult terrain with ease. Native Americans relied on pemmican
as their fuel, a mixture of meat, fat and berries. They could live for
days on the energy, protein and antioxidants it supplied. ...

I [used] the dynamic statistical models I developed in my research to
the movement of wild animals, children at play, sports events.  I
would eventually use this to understand the complex energy dynamics of
Palaeolithic hunter-gatherers as they foraged for food.  There were
periods of feast and famine and mixtures of physical activity that
varied enormously in intensity and duration.

Hunger motivates movement. This is a genetically engineered survival
tactic. If you are starving, you have a powerful reason to get up and
do something about it. Hunger also alters your bloodstream – it
releases adrenaline and growth hormone to mobilise fat as fuel. That’s
a good moment to exercise, if you’re interested in getting maximum
results.  An experimenter once told me he could not get his lab rats
to do their mandatory exercise unless they were hungry.  One well-fed
rat would just sit on the treadmill and let the wheel rub the fur of
its behind.

What was most revealing about trying to model the Palaeolithic energy
environment was how our ancestors moved. A hunter had to walk long
distances, sprint, and then, in the kill, had to execute abrupt,
violent motions.  If the hunt were successful, he’d have to lift and
haul a heavy load back home. A gatherer, too, walked far depending on
what she sought, and then had to return home bearing a burden.  Most
of life was random and unpredictable.  There was no such thing as a
‘typical’ activity.  A hunter expended energy in great bursts of
activity and treks of varying length, but then, for a lot of the time,
did absolutely nothing [..]

Every living creature throughout history has gone hungry now and
then. Intermittent fasting is embedded in our metabolism; food
scarcity was a normal part of life for our ancestors. The research
suggests that prehistoric hunter-gatherers spent about one third of
their lives hungry, which is more deprivation than we need for our
purposes. But a little self-imposed food scarcity is a good thing. ...

[B]rief fasting reduces oxidative stress and improves insulin
sensitivity and protein turnover in muscle. A little hunger turns on
your body’s repair mechanisms. So, doing without the occasional
feeding is a powerful way to slow ageing. I skip one dinner a week,
chosen at random. On those nights, I go to bed early. You burn fat
while you sleep, so the more sleep you get, the leaner you will
be. Sometimes I skip breakfast and lunch but enjoy a big dinner. ...

Intermittent fasting ... has been found to decrease the incidence of
tumours and kidney disease, and can increase resistance to dysfunction
and degeneration in stroke and those who suffer with Alzheimer’s,
Parkinson’s and Huntington’s diseases.  Intermittent fasting enhances
resistance to oxidative, metabolic and other types of stress. It is
nice to know that our obsession with eating so regularly is so
completely wrong. Go ahead and skip that meal, and reap the rewards of
better metabolism and enhanced resistance to stress and disease.

<a name='jog'/>

Variety and play are the essential human attributes. By keeping your
workouts brief and exhilarating you won’t get bored. By adding lots of
outdoor activity and play, you will enjoy the power and fitness you
gain. If you start a new sport, or pick up one long neglected, you
will see how the power you gain improves your play.  The feedback
between the training and your new power in the sport will be
habit-forming.

I fail to see how anyone can train five or six days a week in the gym
and for hours at a time. That is factory or agricultural work, not
anything human beings were evolved to do. And the paradox is that you
will gain less strength and fitness if you over-train.  You will join
the thousands who quit exercising out of sheer boredom. ...

I began to exercise less than ever before, but harder. There was no
standard workout routine – I never did the same exercises in the same
order twice. I still lifted, pushed, pulled, reached, but as the
spirit moved me, not according to some textbook plan.  I also varied
the time of day I exercised, and the amount of time between
workouts. I might spend a few minutes in the gym one day, an hour the
next time, and then stay away altogether for a day or two, to give
myself time to recover. Sometimes I’d just find a field nearby and try
to simulate some brief but intense ‘fight or flight’ moments, as if I
were chasing something (or something were chasing me).

It worked splendidly. Already muscular and lean, I hit new levels of
both. A famous sculptress asked me to pose for her (I was in my late
sixties at the time) and people at the gym started watching my
workouts. They asked what I ate and did to look the way I did.  They
never believed me when I told them, because it went contrary to
everything they ‘knew’ about fitness.

My diet and exercise had altered my metabolism to express my inner
hunter- gatherer. I had become a 21st-century caveman. ...

Ancient hunter-gatherers spent much of their time doing little or
nothing. And then, every so often, they took action that would exhaust
any 21st-century gym rat.  Overall, they burned twice as much energy
as we do. Lions sleep most of the time. But then they make up for it
by chasing down, killing and carrying away an adult gazelle. The lion
doesn’t try to maintain a steady output of moderate energy. It knows
better.  There are people at my gym who waste hours on treadmills and
stairmasters, trudging away but never really pushing themselves to
intensity. ...

<a name='run'/>

As in all exercise, intermittency and variety are the goals in aerobic
workouts. You want to stop and start, go in an instant from walking to
running at top speed for forty or fifty yards, then amble along until
the urge to sprint overtakes you again. When you do this, you exercise
all the different types of muscle fibre, whereas joggers work only the
slow- and intermediate-twitch kinds.  Jogging also wastes time because
you need to do it for long periods to see any benefit. Mixing up
sprints with walks is safer for your heart, too. And there’s less
stress on your knees, ankles, hips, feet and back.

You are getting a good cardio workout just by lifting weights as I
suggest, without much of a break between sets or stations.  Your heart
should be pumping and your lungs working when you do it vigorously and
with a sense of purpose. If you still feel the need for more aerobic
exercise, find a game to play.  Tennis, squash and rollerblading, for
instance, are intense, stop-and-start activities, meaning they burn
all three kinds of muscle fibre. And they have the added advantage of
being fun. ...

Your brain and body expect you to live a life of movement and action,
of challenge and response, of variety and adaptation. Your brain still
‘sees’ sensory inputs as though you are a hunter-gatherer and, at the
instinctive level, directs your actions accordingly.

