# The Hydrogen Economy

Rifkin

But what does “prepared” really mean? If the fossil-fuel era is
passing, what can replace it? A new energy regime lies before us whose
nature and character are as different from that of fossil fuels as the
latter was different from the wood-burning energy that proceeded it.

Hydrogen is the lightest and most ubiquitous element found in the
universe. When harnessed as a form of energy, it becomes “the forever
fuel.” 5 It never runs out, and, because it contains not a single
carbon atom, it emits no carbon dioxide. Hydrogen is found everywhere
on Earth, in water, fossil fuels, and all living things. Yet, it
rarely exists free-floating in nature. Instead, it has to be extracted
from natural sources.

The foundation is already being laid for the hydrogen economy. In the
next few years, the computer-and-telecommunications revolution is
going to fuse with the new hydrogen-energy revolution, making for a
powerful mix that could fundamentally reconfigure human relationships
in the 21st and 22nd centuries. Since hydrogen is found everywhere and
is inexhaustible if properly harnessed, every human being on Earth
could be “empowered,” making hydrogen energy the first truly
democratic energy regime in history.

Hydrogen-powered fuel cells are being commercially produced for
installation in factories, offices, commercial buildings, and homes to
produce power, light, and heat. The major automakers have spent more
than $2 billion developing hydrogen-fuel-cell- powered cars, buses,
and trucks, and they expect to mass-produce the new generation of
vehicles before the end of the current decade. Locating micro-power
plants on-site with the end user—so-called “distributed
generation”—threatens the long-standing dominion enjoyed by
centralized power plants that grew up with the fossil-fuel era. Now,
the end user becomes his or her own producer as well as consumer of
energy. When millions of small power plants are connected into vast
energy webs, using the same architectural design principles and smart
technologies that made possible the World Wide Web, people can share
energy and sell it to one another—peer-to-peer energy sharing—and
break the hold of giant energy and power companies forever.

