# Week 8

News

Justice Antoin Scalia has passed away.

Badabim, badabum

Eeeyyyy, why are u busting my balls over heeereee..

Eyyyyy..

---

Republican Leadership

Obama should not appoint the Scalia replacement.

That is ludicrous

For his third appointment, one could expect Bam, maybe, to be more
watchful of the balance of the court as Reagan was for his (he
appointed Justice Kennedy who became a swing vote in today's court),
but I don't think Republican leadership can demand another
ultra-convervative paisan Roman-Catholic from New Jersey. Effin Pope
himself would be okay - not another Scalia.

---

Trump Employees in Chicago 

![](CbywjpdUAAA-EE_.jpg)

Ha ha ha

His employees have the right idea...

I guess I am not the only one who took a Trump in the Trump
Tower. Mine was in NY though - more valuable.

---

Info

There is a basketball court on the top floor of the U.S. Supreme Court
building. It's known as the "highest court in the land".

Nice

---

Boston Dynamics [owned by Google] released a video of its latest
robot, Atlas.

Excellent

Its walking ability,  balance seem quite advanced. Exciting development.

---

Comment

Why are there so many anti-establishment candidates [..]

Anti what? 

This word is sometimes used to describe Bernie Sanders for example -
but they forget the man has been in Congress for decades, and was a
mayor before that. So Bernie is also "the establishment", but he is
from a different part of the establishment that won some of the recent
elections. That's all.

Broadly speaking, I don't think the public will benefit from simply
electing an outsider to work inside the existing system - like The
Trump. Either the system changes wholesale, becomes something else
obviating this incessant need for saviors, heroes who over-promise and
under-deliver, or, incremental improvements are made in the right
direction by experienced operators who know the system
inside-out. Hillary could probably do that, Bernie as well (my #2
choice). On the Republican side it could be Rubio; he seems to be the
least insane among the others.

---

Want

[[-]](https://youtu.be/fpVQ_BXZOHw)

---

\#SciHub

"A researcher in Russia has made more than 48 million journal articles
- almost every single peer-reviewed paper every published - freely
available online. And she's now refusing to shut the site down [..] 
For those of you who aren't already using it, the site in question is
Sci-Hub, and it's sort of like a Pirate Bay of the science world. It
was established in 2011 by neuroscientist Alexandra Elbakyan, who was
frustrated that she couldn't afford to access the articles needed for
her research, and it's since gone viral, with hundreds of thousands of
papers being downloaded daily. But at the end of last year, the site
was ordered to be taken down by a New York district court - a ruling
that Elbakyan has decided to fight, triggering a debate over who
really owns science. 

"Payment of $32 is just insane when you need to skim or read tens or
hundreds of these papers to do research. I obtained these papers by
pirating them," Elbakyan told Torrent Freak last year. "Everyone
should have access to knowledge regardless of their income or
affiliation. And that’s absolutely legal."

If it sounds like a modern day Robin Hood struggle, that's because it
kinda is. But in this story, it's not just the poor who don't have
access to scientific papers - journal subscriptions have become so
expensive that leading universities such as Harvard and Cornell have
admitted they can no longer afford them"

---

One Day..

.. I was walking on 5th Avenue New York and... I really had to
go. Really bad. You know, #2. "Red Alert", if u know what I mean. I
looked around, "The Trump" Tower was nearby, so I went in to make use
of their "facilities". I said to myself, "maybe I should take a
Leonardo di Caprio" in here... I could not decide. Then I
said.. "maybe I should take a William Shatner". But no no, I was now
in Trump Tower, so I have to take a **TRUMP**. A big **TRUMP**. So I did it. I
dropped it in there man.. Boom! It felt so good... This place was
weird by the way; I think the sh..ters were gold plated. I am not
joking, it's either that or some other weirdly shiny material,
everything was so bright, like, you can't look directly at them, they
are blinding your eyes. Freaky environment.

---

Montessori Vs. Conventional School

[[-]](https://youtu.be/3NGRpzQ9vCE)

---
