# Week 16




About a dozen trucks from major manufacturers like Volvo and Daimler
just completed a week of largely autonomous driving across Europe, the
first such major exercise on the continent. The trucks set off from
their bases in three European countries and completed their journeys
in Rotterdam in the Netherlands today (Apr. 6). One set of trucks,
made by the Volkswagen subsidiary Scania, traveled more than 2,000 km
and crossed four borders to get there [..]

While self-driving cars from Google or Ford get most of the credit for
capturing the public imagination, commercial uses for autonomous or
nearly autonomous vehicles, like tractors from John Deere, have been
quietly putting the concept to work in a business setting.

When trucks autonomously follow one another, it’s called “platooning.”
They’re connected by wifi and can leave a much smaller gap between
vehicles than when humans are at the wheel. Platooning can reduce fuel
use by up to 15%, prevent human error from causing accidents, and
reduce congestion, according to a study by research firm TNO. 

---

When money is cheap, borrowing becomes too easy, then money can go to
places we may not like it to go to - useless M & A is one example. The
big fat bond the beermaker InBev dropped recently will mostly be used
for a merger IMO (low rates triggered an intense "search for yield"
elsewhere, after the Inbev bond was issued the market ate that shit up
so fast, it was comical). Heroic acts are becoming necessary to "stop"
tax-avoiding mergers, but the fact that heroics are required signals
the the "evolutionary landscape" has problems; if there is a swamp,
there are flies. Virgin America was bought by Alaska Air, the former's
founder Branson said he could not stop it due to a US legalistic quirk
that did not give him proper voting rights; another useless merger
where the friggin founder is not happy and, the word is, the consumers
are not happy either. 

---

Bunch of Useless M&A..

"[Commenting on the dangers of FED keeping interest rates too low for
too long] Back in late 2003, I remember we had nine percent nominal
growth, seven percent real growth.  The economy was very, very strong,
but we had one percent interest rates, and we also had a tag on them
that they were going to remain there for a considerable period, and I
just felt at the time that fed policy was unnecessarily easy [..]

[I]f you look at the situation [today], stock prices, household net
worth per capita, are at record highs.  By the way, they went to
record highs in 2013, and they’ve been going up for two straight
years, so I’m not sure exactly what the fed is trying to achieve in
terms of the reward here; particularly, since if you look at what is
going on, we’ve had a tremendous amount of debt growth; particularly,
in the corporate sector, and, unfortunately, the productivity of that
debt, if it was measurable, I would opine to say is at an all-time
low.

Why did I say that?  Because there’s good debt growth, and there’s bad
debt growth.  Good debt growth is when you borrow money, and it goes
into the real economy.  You do capital spending.  You build
businesses.  But by most calculations, almost 98 percent of the
current debt growth has gone into M &A [short for mergers and
acquisitions] cooperate buy-backs, by the way, at record prices,
leveraged buy-outs, so where it’s going is into financial engineering,
and I can’t prove it, but I would pretty much feel very confident that
a trillion dollars in buy-backs, and dividends in the last year and
four trillion is the forecast this year for M & A, is a job reducer,
an economic reducer, so I don’t exactly what they think they’re
getting out of the zero percent rates."

---

Fascinating.  

"DNA as Hard Drive.. DNA can fit almost 1 billion terabytes of data
into just one gram. That makes it far more efficient than any other
known form of computer storage.

And it also manages to last for a long time, as can be seen in the
fact that the DNA of woolly mammoths has stayed accessible tens of
thousands of years after they died. Experts suggest that storing data
in DNA would allow it to last for 2,000 years or more, making it far
more long-lasting than traditional data storage.

But DNA remains expensive. The US start-up that Microsoft bought the
DNA from charges about 10 cents for a custom DNA sequence, though it
hopes to make it much cheaper in the future.

Accessing it is similarly expensive, because it relies on genetic
sequencing. Costs have dropped massively - the human genome project
cost about $3 billion in the 13 years it took from 1990, but would
cost $1,000 now.

Microsoft says that initial trials of the technology have seen all of
the data stored on it retrieved.

“We’re still years away from a commercially-viable product, but our
early tests with Twist demonstrate that in the future we’ll be able to
substantially increase the density and durability of data storage,”
said Doug Carmean, the Microsoft partner who worked on the technology"

---

Blinkety blink motherblinking abso-blinking-lutely blinking awesome.

---

Dude Where Is My Solar Impulse 2?!!

"A solar-powered airplane reached the San Francisco Bay area and
performed a fly-by over the Golden Gate Bridge on Saturday afternoon,
some 56 hours after leaving Oahu as part of its journey around the
world.

Solar Impulse 2 took off from Kalaeloa Airport early Thursday morning.

“I crossed the bridge. I am officially in America,” pilot Bertrand
Piccard declared as he flew over the iconic span as spectators watched
the narrow aircraft with extra wide wings from below"

---

But the success of [investment firm AHL's] machine learning
experiments in recent years led the company to plough more money into
the field, and it is now the single biggest investment area at AHL
[..]. AHL has been researching machine learning — a field of
artificial intelligence where dynamic algorithms pore over vast data
sets for patterns — for five years, and has been using the technique
in trading for the past three years. The results have been
encouraging, according to executives at the hedge fund.

A machine learning strategy helped one of AHL’s funds swing from a
narrow loss to a narrow gain in August last year, when markets were
convulsed by concerns over China, by autonomously buying and selling
stock at vital junctures in the turmoil. Many traders initially stood
on the sidelines, unable to quantify rapidly-changing data.

“It learnt to buy the dip,” said Nick Granger, co-head of research at
AHL and deputy chief investment officer. “No one taught it to do this,
it learnt how to do this when we showed it a lot of data.

Genuine advances in this field are welcome, but watch out

---

Ernie Chan: "There was an article in the New York Times a short while
ago about a new hedge fund launched by Mr. Ray Kurzweil, a poineer in
the field of artificial intelligence. (Thanks to my fellow blogger
Yaser Anwar who pointed it out to me.) The stock picking decisions in
this fund are supposed to be made by machines that "... can observe
billions of market transactions to see patterns we could never
see". While I am certainly a believer in algorithmic trading, I have
become a skeptic when it comes to trading based on "aritificial
intelligence".

At the risk of over-simplification, we can characterize artificial
intelligence as trying to fit past data points into a function with
many, many parameters. This is the case for some of the favorite tools
of AI: neural networks, decision trees, and genetic algorithms. With
many parameters, we can for sure capture small patterns that no human
can see. But do these patterns persist? Or are they random noises that
will never replay again? Experts in AI assure us that they have many
safeguards against fitting the function to transient noise. And
indeed, such tools have been very effective in consumer marketing and
credit card fraud detection. Apparently, the patterns of consumers and
thefts are quite consistent over time, allowing such AI algorithms to
work even with a large number of parameters. However, from my
experience, these safeguards work far less well in financial markets
prediction, and over-fitting to the noise in historical data remains a
rampant problem. As a matter of fact, I have built financial
predictive models based on many of these AI algorithms in the past
[Chan has a PhD in machine learning]. Every time a carefully
constructed model that seems to work marvels in backtest came up, they
inevitably performed miserably going forward. The main reason for this
seems to be that the amount of statistically independent financial
data is far more limited compared to the billions of independent
consumer and credit transactions available. (You may think that there
is a lot of tick-by-tick financial data to mine, but such data is
serially-correlated and far from independent.)

This is not to say that quantitative models do not work in
prediction. The ones that work for me are usually characterized by
these properties:

• They are based on a sound econometric or rational basis, and not on
  random discovery of patterns;

• They have few or even no parameters that need to be fitted to past
  data;

• They involve linear regression only, and not fitting to some
  esoteric nonlinear functions;

• They are conceptually simple.

Only when a trading model is philosophically constrained in such a
manner do I dare to allow testing on my small, precious amount of
historical data. Apparently, Occam’s razor works not only in science,
but in finance as well"

Yes

Chan is the author of two books on algorithmic / quantitative trading
- so he knows what he is talking about. In another post he mentions of
feeling unease whenever he hears of some neural net based trading
model that'll have gazillion free parameters to fit, an obvious
non-linear approach and prone to overfitting on serially dependent
data. 

There is a lot of beautiful mathematics to use on finance and trading,
but they might not always fall under the data mining / AI approach. If
data mining approaches are used, they need to be handled with care -
with a keen eye for the statistical aspects on how the algorithms
behave on the data at hand. 

Overall though, more quantitative approaches are a welcome innovation
- they bring more rationality to the market, and also more
liquidity. Speculation is a good thing - and it is the kind that we
want, mathematical, on open exchanges, rather than the ones through
over-the-counter, and too-connected-and-big-to-fail sausage makers /
banks.

---

Question

But ppl in finance are not curing cancer.

Not everyone will work on that kind of research

.. no matter the incentive - not everyone should either. While on this
topic, I must say I am a little frustrated by this constant degrading
of finance, as if it the whole industry is born of an evil
seed. Providing liquidity to grain, metal producers, buyers, sellers
is a good thing. During the dot-com boom there were sites offering
pet-services, or  things like "online-laundry". Are these truly
essential services compared to finance? All this stuff is luxury at
the end of the day, isn't it? So is getting a haircut, watching
sports, sitting at Starbucks for that matter. If we scratch the
surface on all economic activity a little, almost nothing will remain
standing, except basic goods and services.

---

Question

But while these [online laundry, pet upkeep, etc] services are being
developed, they spur innovation in related tech (coding of the
backend, handling of data, prediction for CRM so forth), math, and
management techniques. 

Right

But you can say that about anything. Side-innovation is especially
potent in finance, since it is mostly if not all about information. 

---

Question

There is inequality. Health care is broken. People don't spend.

Give people free money

Knowledge driven 3W economy brings with it more uncertainties,
non-permanent jobs / gigs, life is too dynamic. This is the result -
on the one hand people are forced to fight a cage match to "earn", on
the other hand they are asked to consume what are essentially luxury
services.

No wonder company earnings are in a do-doo.

More innovation will also require a better safety net BTW. So however
we look at it, it all comes to the same thing.

---

Washington Post

There’s little doubt that what has happened to America’s middle class
has helped to create the climate that has fueled Trump’s
[i.e. fascism's] sudden rise [..] For most families, the two
recessions have wiped out previous gains and widened the wealth and
income gap between the wealthiest and all others. “The losses were so
large that only upper-income families realized notable gains in wealth
over the span of 30 years from 1983 to 2013,” according to the Pew
study.

And there is that

---

Question

Why not give people services?

Too old school

.. because the needs are too varied (see the answer above), and now we
know about them (due to freer flow of information).

If my memory serves correctly, the first exampe of a "social" service
took place a few centruries ago, the state delivered a bottle of milk
at the doorstep of each home. A seemingly nice thing to do - but it
also demonstrated the second-wave industrial age type of
thinking. Nearly half the people in the world have an allergy for milk
- they can't digest the shit. But 2W at the time was producing many
such one-size-fits-all products, it saw the society that way, it saw
life that way. The state simply took that milk that was being produced
en masse, and gave it to people, en masse. Now we know this cannot
work. It's better to give people money so some buy milk, but others a
haircut, some healthcare, some bread, ..  whatever.

---

Question

What will government do then?

Inspect food, watch borders, smart regulation, fund research

---

There have been extinction level events triggered by asteroid hits on
the Earth, but it is also known Jupiter with its massive size
protected Earth before, pulling asteroids to itself. Are these views
contradictory?

No

With the Planet 9 explanation, it all makes sense. Jupiter is massive
(in fact some jokingly refer to our solar system as "Jupiter and some
debris"), it saved us before, but P9, being a planet itself, can enter
deep into the solar system, knocking stuff in the direction of
Earth. Jupiter would not be able to run interference against those.

Some more info on the subject: about the periodicity and measurement
of extinction events, paper. My notebook that looks at frequencies of
extinction events [geek] using the Lomb-Scargle method that computes
statistical significance of peaks, rather than direct Fourier Analysis
[/geek]. I reverse-engineered the graph here  with image processing to
get its raw data (who da man!) and compute the periods of extinction
events. The result is this, and periods in this. There is one period
of 25 million years, and one for around 70 - dinosaurs were wiped out
66 million years ago during one of these I assume.

[1](ex1.png)
[2](ex2.png)
[3](extinct.csv)
[4](extinct.html)

---

Question

Favorite phone prank?

[Bodankadonk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-qVYi1bQ0zk) by Tracy
Morgan. Still unsurpassed.

---

Strong evidence for the existence of a ninth planet (9th because the
previous 9th, Pluto, was demoted). Fascinating stuff.. It takes P9
almost 20,000 years to go around the sun. Some also claim (backed up
by reputable research) that this planet passes through a region of
space full of icy objects every 27 million years, knocking them
towards the Earth, creating mass extinction events. It seems space
travel is not a luxury, it's a necessity.

---

\#colbert \#conan

https://youtu.be/rfxCy0wj4uw

https://youtu.be/TaxAsHhex10

---

The History of Medical Billing

[[-]](https://youtu.be/CeDOQpfaUc8)

---

Bernie Sanders: "The model of the Democratic Party is failing"

https://youtu.be/LZv-0f46Abw

---
