# Week 24

The numbers for basic income does not add up..

Ha ha 

Finally we started seeing some comments on the issue. The Swiss will
be voting on BI soon apparently, hence the interest..

BI is not for everyone. In the case of US, for starters, foreign-born
immigrants should not qualify. Don't give any money to Arnold
Schwarzenegger - he doesn't need it anyway. That reduces the number
to 316 - 42 = 274 million.

Giving only to ppl over 21, 3/4's of the # above is 205.5
million. $400 a month to these people makes about $1 trillion.

US pays about 60% of its budget to entitlement programs - a recent
budget was $3.78 trillion, 60% of that is $2.27 trillion, these
programs are healthcare, social sec, food stamps, etc. All that is
canceled.  More money needed? Close tax loopholes, offshore schemes,
go to the corporations, rich people, tax their ass. Or if a person has
a job, give them half BI - the allocations would be simple to adjust,
a couple if..else statements added to a piece of software.

It is true social security pays 15,528 per year on average, and the
final BI payment can fall a bit short of that, but throughout their
lifetime people would work, and pay to their private retirement
accounts, and when they retire they can have a good income. Social
Security will go bust anyway, so any comparison to it is like
comparing apples and oranges, or..  comparing an orange to a rotten
apple.

After all that, what did we gain in return? Today 50 MILLION PEOPLE
ARE ON FOOD STAMPS IN AMERICA. Now they have income, they can eat
whatever they want, without some "very nice" state senator deciding
what they eat. Poverty - gone.

Another benefit: 70% of employees are not engaged at work, most of
these people, I assume, hate what they do / and probably working on
useless shit. These people will have the freedom to try out other
things, and be more productive.

Besides the immediate help it provides, BI is a political bribe like
any other. It's main function is to quell discontent; Sausage making
banks were bailed out, defunct car makers were bailed out, money has
been poured down the drain for stupid wars, naturally there will be
residual bad feelings left from that. BI will help manage this
negative perception.

---

If we ever base money on something, it should be gold (again), not a
cybercurrency, because a bits can be stolen electronically / easily
but gold cannot.

Wrong

Maybe thieves cannot hack into a vault, but they can still break your
f**king door and take your gold. Plus the damn thing is impossible to
transport easily once it is in physical form.

---

News

The head of a startup bringing blockchain to finance had a prestigious
audience last week: central bankers from 90 countries including
Federal Reserve Chair Yellen, as well as officials from the
International Monetary Fund, World Bank and Bank for International
Settlements. His message: get on board with digital ledgers, which
proponents say could dramatically improve how money flows around the
globe.[..]

Banks have a new reason to pay attention to emerging technologies
following a series of thefts. In February, thieves made off with $81
million from the central bank of Bangladesh. A commercial bank in
Ecuador said it was held up for $12 million last year, while a bank in
Vietnam said criminals tried, and failed, to steal $1.1 million in
what experts say may have been a practice run for Bangladesh. All of
the attacks were committed by cybercriminals, and at least some made
use of a messaging system run by the Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunication, better known as Swift.  Blockchain could
help prevent such hacks. Unlike Swift, a banking system run on a
blockchain would be distributed with no one point of failure because
the system runs simultaneously on all the computers linked to it
around the world.

Ludwin told bankers that the question they face is not how digital
currencies can help the current financial system, it’s what role
central banks decide to play. They can operate the digital networks
themselves, issue digital assets, hold those assets, create products
and services to run on those networks or just observe them, he
said.[..] If banks and their customers conducted those transactions on
a blockchain, it would give central bankers new insight and
transparency. That’s because all transactions on a blockchain are
recorded, can’t be changed and can be viewed by anyone on the network
at any time, including regulators[..]

Great Idea

---

Comment

Bitcoin is bad [..] it is used by drug smugglers, shady characters 

Errr

So is paper money... What's your point? 

This is an example of criticism-by-association, a form of mental laziness. Sky is blue, so is the blue man group, and a bad person once went to their show, so blue sky is not good. Seriously.

---

Led Zeppelin's Stairway to Heaven may be partly stolen, judge says [..]

Insane

The song judge claims Zeppelin partly stole from sounds nothing like
STH. The only similar part is here, and it repeats for a while, but
that's all.. To say this is an example of theft is like saying Magnum
P. I. stole its idea from Sherlock Holmes. They are both about
detectives, and crime solving aren't they ?! There you go! Busted.

Copyright, its enforcement, this entire scheme around content is
getting out of hand. I am already firmly against software patents,
copyright on music is another ineffective, unworkable idea IMHO.

---

News

Bees can solve complex mathematical problems [..].The insects learn to
fly the shortest route between flowers discovered in random order,
effectively solving the "travelling salesman problem [TSP]" , said
scientists [..]

Most Likely Not

TSP is a hard computer science problem, given a list of cities and
distances between them, finding the shortest route after a visit to
each city once and returning to the starting point. In computational
complexity terms, TSP is NP-Hard - meaning all possibilities must be
tried out.

I know I shared this before on amoebaes, but there is a big difference
between anticipating periodicity and solving an NP-hard problem - the
latter has much bigger implications. The bees might have solved this
problem approximately, and that's fine, but the approximate solution
is already known by CS researchers as well.

This person has the right idea.

---

The Week

[T]he groups working the longest hours are the ones who enjoy the most
privilege: white upper-class men. That's striking, since more leisure
time has traditionally been associated with privilege. As Boushey and
Ansel point out, "If you Google the definition of 'bankers' hours,' it
refers to the 'short working hours' bankers used to enjoy, which is
certainly not the case today." In America over the last few decades,
the association between leisure and privilege has been flipped on its
head.

What happened?

First, we've gone through several decades now where there's basically
always been more people looking for work than jobs available. Workers
are competing for jobs, rather than employers competing for workers,
so everyone — including professional-class white men — is worried
about losing his or her job.[..]

Second, the highest paying industries are also incredibly
cut-throat. This brings us to Boushey and Ansel's other finding: The
professions with the biggest income gaps between their lowest and the
highest paid workers were also the professions where people were the
most likely to work more than 40 hours a week.[..]

On the other end of the spectrum, many people aren't allowed to work
longer hours. Because workers can be so easily replaced, employers are
free to put people to work sporadically and chaotically, especially in
low-income service sectors. Racial minorities and African-Americans
especially tend to be the first ones pushed into the surplus labor
pool when this happens. Mothers, who still basically get no support
from the U.S. government, are also forced to tap out of the workforce
to take care of their children.

We used to think that as living standards improved, less work would
deliver more income and thus more leisure time. But now, more and more
work hours are what everyone's after. Because in today's economy, the
alternative to working more isn't enjoying quality time with friends
and family. The alternative is nothing. The American workplace has
basically become a Thunderdome where the victors are rewarded with
long hours.[..]

[L]onger work hours and who gets those hours is ultimately a function
of a sick economy, the answer is to fix the whole thing.

Yep

---

<a name="howitis"/>

People long for a politician who says it like it is.

It's a trend

It all started with Jesse Ventura; former Navy Seal, pro-wrestler, he
was like exactly like this... Then McCain copied his style, he
apparently sent people to Jesse's events trying to learn from it. He
must have learned something, because he used this "straight talk"
angle against W during primaries and then against Obama during the
2008 election. He failed both times. Howard Dean used the same style
on the Democratic side, until he was done in by "[the
scream](https://youtu.be/RwkNnMrsx7Q?t=46)".

I guess straight-talk method was 1st used successfully, after Jesse,
by the Governator -who happens to be good friends with Jesse BTW-. "I
ain't got time to bleed!"

---

Article

Trump is the son of a German immigrant, and you know, Germans are
loud, boastful..

Ummm-No

See C. Rapaille's The Culture Code. In France the sun is male, the
moon is female. In German it is the other way around, die Sonne, der
Mond. In France (and in most Mediterranean countries I assume, and
Russia) the male shines, is supposed to take a center stage. In
Germany women shine, men are supposed to be the hang-back, silent
type, they don't shine (see the fictional story Heidi, a happy little
girl, and his silent, grumpy grandfather). That is the arcetype. If
you try to be flippant, like this guy, you lose.  D. Chump is the
furthest thing from the archetype. Oh and he is no "favorite son" or
whateever, he said some shit about people here too, so rest assured,
his dumb-ass is disowned. 

---

Question

What do you have against MTBI SPs? 

Nothing

There are some great ones. Some cultures can accentuate their
negatives, they'll have a hard time at these places, but in some, and
with good upbringing, they are perfectly fine. Clint Eastwood is a
functioning one, he makes thoughtful movies, though his political
views are a bit archaic. It took him a long time to get there
though... Ben Affleck is another - great guy.

---

Question

What is needed to generate philosophy in today's world? 

Three Things

The budding philosopher must be good at three subjects 1) Computation,
complexity theory, coding 2) Mathematical modeling, numerical
computation 3) Understanding social dynamics, either through math or
through inborn skill. Without these three, one cannot shoot the shit
on philosophical matters  today. I'm sorry. 

Someone is going to combine all of this, do the slam-dunk.  I am not
saying I am that guy, but I can see that's what it will take to get
there. P != NP? Lyapunov exponent? Got to grok that biznitch. Without
these how can a person generate new ideas on AI, the knowledge
economy, so forth? Otherwise we'll have bunch of INTJs talking out of
their ass about subject matters outside their knowledge, they have a
certain skill with that, sure, but it will not be the real thing.

---

Question

Aren't INTJs good at theorizing?

They are

.. but they are also given to leave stuff out to "make the theory
work" and these  left-out facts can break the model completely. Their
motto is "I've made up my mind, don't confuse me with the facts" -
their Ni (introverted intuition) works like a fuzzy Ti (introverted
thinking) - it can converge on theories extremely fast, with limited
knowledge. A strength in many environments, but also  a weakness in
some cases.

I give an example to how an INTJ theorizes. One INTJ told me once  "a
country needs an empire in their past to have a good culinary
culture", Here's a theory. The idea is if there is an empire there'd
be a king and queen, and cooking for the palace develops the culinary
culture, knowledge would spread from there to everyone, etc.,
etc.. Granted, history and culinary culture was outside the field of
expertise for this INTJ (his field is chemistry and the man is really
smart, a genius in fact), though the model has a certain elegance, it
fits a lot of data points.  But he left out one data point to make it
all work.

THE BRITISH F--ING EMPIRE.

Right? I mean, when was the last time anyone went to a British
Restaurant? What would the menu even be like? 1) Fish 2) Chips 3) Fish
and Chips? Well... anyway. Leaving that aside, the theory could still
be salvageable perhaps.., I don't know, maybe you constrain it here
and there, and it can still function. 

---
