# The Suez Aftermath Ike Didn't Like

[Link](http://www.thetower.org/article/we-are-still-living-with-eisenhowers-biggest-mistake-suez-egypt-israel-ikes-gamble-michael-doran/)

Michael Doran’s valiant attempt to save us from ignorance and bad
history in his bracing new book, *Ike’s Gamble: America’s Rise to
Dominance in the Middle East*. He expertly walks us through the Suez
Crisis of 1956 and its ghastly aftermath when Republican President
Dwight “Ike” Eisenhower learned the hard way that Israel, not Egypt or
any other Arab state, should be the foundation of America’s security
architecture in the Middle East.

When Eisenhower began his first term in 1953, the Cold War was just
six years old. Not every country had chosen a side yet. The Middle
East and North Africa were for the most part non-aligned, and
Eisenhower hoped to bring the Arab world into the American camp.

Great Britain and France were still the predominant Western powers in
the region, yet a nationalist anti-colonial wind was
blowing—especially in Egypt, where the self-styled Free Officers, led
by Mohammed Naguib and the charismatic young Gamal Abdel Nasser, had
overthrown King Farouk the previous year. At the time, Nasser and
other nationalists in the Arab world seemed to be the vanguard for an
entire region, and if Eisenhower wanted the Arabs to stand with
Washington against Moscow, he’d have to get on their good side.

Ike was in a tough spot, though, since America’s traditional allies
were still colonial powers. Britain and France had drawn most of the
Middle East’s borders after the fall of the Ottoman Empire in the
waning days of World War I, and they’d installed and continued to
maintain several governments in that part of the world. In Egypt’s
case, Britain garrisoned troops in the Suez Canal, and both British
and French investors owned the Suez Canal Company, which kept almost
all the profits from ships transiting to and from the Mediterranean
Sea and the Red Sea. Hostility to the new state of Israel was also
rampant from Baghdad to Rabat, especially in Israel’s borderland
countries like Egypt.

So Ike and his foreign policy team felt compelled to distance
themselves from Britain, France, and Israel to prevent the Arab states
from aligning themselves with the Soviet Union. Nasser was fast
becoming a leader in region-wide Arab politics, and he wanted what
remained of the British Empire out of Egypt entirely. Eisenhower and
Secretary of State John Foster Dulles—both natural
anti-imperialists—decided to act as an honest broker, as they put it,
between Cairo, London, Paris, and Jerusalem.

The U.S. hosted talks between the British and the Egyptians over the
status of Britain’s military base in the canal zone, and the Americans
effectively took Egypt’s side and strong-armed Britain into signing an
agreement mandating a withdraw of all of its soldiers within 20
months. With one victory under his belt, Nasser went after the
next. He nationalized the Suez Canal Company, even though it wasn’t
supposed to be under Egyptian control until 1968 per the treaty, and
he closed the Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping.

On October 29, 1956, Britain, France, and Israel invaded Egypt
simultaneously and left Eisenhower holding the bag. Ike thought
military action was the worst possible response, but at the same time
he hoped for a quick Western victory, and he was exasperated with
British delays and incompetence. Even so, he reluctantly took Egypt’s
side and imposed crippling economic sanctions that effectively
deprived Europe of imported energy. “Those who began this operation,”
he told his aides, “should be left to work out their own oil
problems—to boil in their own oil, so to speak.”

Britain had no choice but to withdraw, followed by France and Israel.

Ike didn’t feel comfortable doing any of this. Britain and France were
American allies, after all, even though they behaved recklessly. He
simply felt that he had little choice. “How could we possibly support
Britain and France,” he said, “if in doing so we lose the whole Arab
world?”

Nasser had conned Eisenhower, however, and he had done it masterfully.

If you’re familiar with the history of the region, you already know
that Nasser aligned Egypt with the Soviet Union anyway and whipped up
the Arab world into an anti-American frenzy. Ike’s gamble
failed. Nasser’s heart was with Moscow all along. He cleverly used
Eisenhower as a tool for his own ambitions and planned to stab the
United States in the front from the very beginning.

One of Nasser’s deceptions should be familiar to anyone who has
followed the painful ins and outs of botched Arab-Israeli
peacemaking. Over and over again, Nasser used a strategy Doran calls
“dangle and delay.” He repeatedly dangled the tantalizing idea of
peace between Egypt and Israel in front of Eisenhower’s eyes, only to
delay moving forward for one bogus reason after another. He never
planned to make peace with Israel or even to engage in serious talks.

Nasser did, however, participate in theatrical arms negotiations with
Washington that he knew would never go anywhere.

Eisenhower wanted to equip the Egyptian army. Nasser wasn’t stupid,
though. He knew that Ike would attach strings to the deal. Egypt’s
soldiers would need to be trained by Americans, and they’d be reliant
on Americans for spare and replacement parts. Nasser really wanted to
be armed by and tied to the Soviet Union, but had to pretend otherwise
lest Eisenhower side with Britain, France, and Israel. So Nasser
slowly sabotaged talks with the United States in such a way that made
Washington seem unreasonable. That way, when he turned to the Soviet
Union for weapons, he could half-plausibly say he had no choice.

Nasser did such a good job pretending to be pro-American that he
convinced the United States to give him a world-class broadcasting
network that allowed him to speak to the entire Arab world over the
radio. Washington expected him to use his radio addresses to rally the
Arab world behind America against the Russians. Instead, he used it to
blast the United States with virulently anti-American propaganda and
to undermine the West’s Arab allies. “Nasser,” Doran writes, “was the
first revolutionary leader in the postwar Middle East to exploit the
technology in order to call over the heads of the monarchs to the man
on the street. Suddenly the Hashemite monarchy [in Iraq and Jordan]
found itself sitting atop volcanoes.”

Nasser strode the Arab world like a colossus after his American-made
victory in the Suez Crisis, and he became more brazenly anti-American
as he gathered strength. Conning Ike was no longer possible, but
Nasser didn’t need the United States anymore anyway.

Unlike some American presidents, however, Eisenhower learned from his
mistakes. In 1958, five years after being sworn into office, he
reversed course. Rather than suck up to Egypt, Ike deployed American
Marines to Lebanon to shore up President Camille Chamoun, who was
under siege by Nasser’s local allies.

“In Lebanon,” Eisenhower wrote in his memoirs, “the question was
whether it would be better to incur the deep resentment of nearly all
of the Arab world (and some of the rest of the Free World) and in
doing so risk general war with the Soviet Union or to do something
worse—which was to do nothing.” That is almost verbatim what the
British said to justify their own war against Nasser when Eisenhower
slapped them with crippling sanctions.

Reality forced the United States into a total about-face. Ike’s entire
Middle Eastern worldview collapsed. Even before sending the Marines to
Lebanon he announced that America was taking Britain’s place as the
pre-eminent power in the Middle East. He had to start over even if he
didn’t want to. “Nasser,” Doran writes, “the giant who rose from the
Suez Crisis, crushed Eisenhower’s doctrine like a cigarette under his
shoe.”

What happened between the Suez Crisis and Eisenhower’s intervention in
Lebanon? A couple of things.

Ike’s hope to bring Syria into the American orbit alongside Turkey and
Pakistan collapsed in spectacular fashion. So many Syrians swooned
over Nasser after Egypt’s victory in the Suez Canal that Syria,
astonishingly, allowed itself to be annexed by Cairo. Egypt and Syria
became one country—the United Arab Republic—with Nasser as the
dictator of both.

Washington’s attempt to groom Saudi Arabia as a regional
counterbalance to Egypt also hit the skids when Nasser accused the
Saudis of trying to assassinate him and foment a military coup in
Damascus. The Saudis responded by shoving King Saud aside and
replacing him with his Nasserist younger brother, Crown Prince Faisal.

The final blow came with the brutal overthrow of the pro-Western
Hashemite monarchy in Iraq and the mutilation of the royal family’s
corpses in public, thus toppling the last pillar of America’s
anti-Soviet alliance in the Middle East. Eisenhower had no choice but
to stop being clever and return to the first rule of foreign policy:
reward your friends and punish your enemies.

Rewarding friends and punishing enemies has been the traditional
foreign policy for all powerful states since the time of antiquity,
and for one simple reason—because it works. Anything else is almost
always disastrous. No, you will not win every battle or war this way,
and yes, sometimes you have to work with one enemy to defeat
another. But working with enemies to defeat friends is all but
guaranteed to blow up in your face, as Eisenhower and so many others
have learned the hard way.

Eisenhower learned some other stark truths the hard way that still
confound American foreign policy makers today. The Arabs are not a
monolithic bloc and never have been, and the tired divide between
Sunni and Shia Muslims is just one of the fracture lines. In addition
to religion, they are divided by tribe, by region, by national origin
and by ideology. They are as united in their hatred for each other as
they are in their hatred against Israel.

“The revolutionary wave that swept the Middle East after the Suez
Crisis,” Doran writes, “gave Eisenhower an intensive course in the
complexity of inter-Arab conflict. The wave produced a long series of
crises—one day in Syria, the next in Jordan, and the day after that in
Lebanon—none of which had the slightest connection to imperialism or
Zionism. As a result, Eisenhower learned that, because the Arabs were
perpetually at each other’s throats, no effort to organize them into a
single bloc has a chance of success.” Not even Nasser himself could
pull that off.

Nasser, in the end, was a megalomaniacal wrecking ball, and he would
have wreaked far less destruction had Eisenhower not fallen for the
long con and enabled the Egyptian dictator during his rise. “Nasser,”
Doran writes, “was Frankenstein’s monster. His great achievements, the
triumphs on which his reputation was built, were entirely made in
America.”
