# Life

From *The Arrival of the Fittest*, Wagner

Life's early appearance on earth demands a theory of its chemical
origin. Among the earliest ones is the "primordial soup" theory,
usually credited to Alexander Oparin and J. B. S. Haldane [..] who
wrote about it in the 1920s [..] The primordial soup remained
speculation for decades, until 1952, when it received a huge boost
from Stanley Miller, a graduate student in the laboratory of Nobel
laureate Harold Urey at the University of Chicago. Based on an
informed guess at the composition of the gases that were present in
the early atmosphere, Miller sealed these gases in a container,
showered them with electric sparks to simulate primordial lightning,
and washed the mixture in a rainfall of condensing water. After mere
days, many organic molecules—those normally created by living
organisms—had appeared in Miller’s miniature world. This was a
monumental discovery, for it showed how organic molecules could have
emerged from inorganic matter during the turbulent youth of our
planet. And Miller’s primordial ocean produced not just any organic
molecules. It created amino acids such as glycine and alanine, basic
building blocks of modern proteins. Later experiments produced many
other of life’s construction materials, including sugars and parts of
DNA. But even more important was that Miller’s experiments moved
life’s origin from philosophical speculation to the realm of hard,
experimental science.

In September 1969, the world learned something that Miller had not
known in 1952: Life’s molecules can emerge in environments even more
hostile than that of the early earth. That September an exploding
fireball briefly created a second sun in the sky over Murchison, an
Australian town of a few hundred souls some one hundred miles north of
Melbourne. After fracturing, the meteorite left a trail of smoke and
smaller fragments, the largest of which fell harmlessly into a
barn. This cosmic accident happened two months after man had first
walked on the moon, at a time when scientists were itching to study
extraterrestrial rocks.

<a name='unique'/>

As they scratched this itch, they found that the Murchison meteorite
ferried a most unusual cargo. As old as the earth itself, it had
wandered through outer space for eons, yet it contained several of the
amino acid building blocks of proteins, as well as purines and
pyrimidines, which are important DNA building blocks. Later work used
twenty-first-century spectroscopy to show that it harbored more than
ten thousand different kinds of organic molecules, although many of
them in exceedingly small quantities.

The Murchison meteorite, it is important to know, iş not a freak of
nature. Similar meteorites have landed on earth, and countless other
rocks ferry organic cargoes through the heavens. [..] Incidentally,
the single most abundant three-atom molecule in interstellar clouds is
water, another blow to the notion that we and our planet are oh so
very special.

Life’s simpler building blocks are so prevalent in the universe that
molecules from space may have seeded life on earth itself. Meteorites
and comets, especially those that bombarded the early earth,
discharged ten times more water than currently fills all of the
earth’s oceans, and a thousand times more gases than its present-day
atmosphere.

What is more, they also delivered the rich buffet of organic molecules
we find in interstellar space, and in a staggering number of
servings. At least ten trillion tons of organic carbon, and perhaps a
hundred times as much, have entered our atmosphere from outer
space. That is at least ten times more than all the carbon that
circulates in living cells today [..]

