# Psych Types

<a name='a_cf'></a>

Control Freak

CF phsychology is that of a monk who lived in a convent all his life,
then all of a sudden *gets out*. They controlled all their emo, lived
with *discipline*, now they are out in a world of lots of
choice. Their path is to deal with that, cant go back to convent,
can't control, obviously you need to control some aspects of your
life.. they need to find a middle ground, and learn to let go.

<a name='a_hh'></a>

High Horse

HH is a king / queen who should not be. The hidden desire is to be
loved, madly, by people, and by a significant other, while this
happens they want to be at the center stage, they get all this looove,
adulation, they're under the spotlight, there are all these idiots
around clapping madly, it's like so awesome.

But this is exactly what they need to get away from. HH needs to
connect to others, noticing others' importance, and try to make
decisions that are optimal for the group. See the equality in men. An
oft observed attribute of this profile is a want for excessive risk
taking, in gambling, in love, or in other areas (I guess the way a
king would). There are melodramatic tendencies, can also display
arrogant responses, but don't be confused, they will largely stem from
fear. So; wanting to be loved, be affirmed, while wanting to feel
special is an inborn feature, also the negative direction.

<a name='a_crm'></a>

I Am CRM

They need to listen, try not to be "right" all the time, and approach
issues from a thought framework, in a conceptual way. They should not
trust their gut as a default position. Trying to make others laugh is
useful for them as it increases their relation with the other and
helps them connect. I have to say in a chaotic day and age their
negatives could be helpful. The world is suffering from info-overload,
over-connectivity... But since IAC at a normal setting does not hear a
freaking word you say, half the time, they can avoid some of that
chaos. If they manage to listen too, selectively, in a productive
manner, which they would have learned early-on anyway, they would have
a leg up on most other types. As it stands today, politics is full of
them: W, Gore, Clinton, Trump are all IaC. I am not saying all of
these ppl were examplary at their jobs, but they managed to climb to
the top, perhaps helped by their type.

<a name='a_lonesome'></a>

Lonesome Cowboy

Imagine a Western shoot-out scene, one man standing shooting up the
place with two guns, all by himself with no one at his side. This is
Lonesome Cowboy. They tend to be self-reliant and be the lonesome
warrior. Their character development lies on the other direction,
creating win-win situations, preferring diplomacy over conflict.

