# Cursed

The following is from a famous TR satirist, chronicling all the bad
things that happened to foreign leaders after coming into contact with
TR officials. As per the timeline, the prime minister mentioned is
Erdogan, President is Abdullah Gul. Though the reasoning is humorous,
the chain of events, and the timings are absolutely correct, and makes
one think about the reasoning ! :)

----

Kaddafi gave our "leader of the century" an award, his head got
smashed with stones. Hosni Mobarak gave our leader Gul a hug, he ended
up in a cage. Our leader of the century became BFF with Assad, Syrians
have been killing eachother ever since. Our dear leader went to
Pakistan, Benazir Butto was bombed to pieces. Our prime minister made
a speech in the Lebanese parliament, Lebanon was invaded the next
day. Our President went to Yemen, they sat with our ministers, they
cried and sang Yemeni songs, then Yemen tumbled into a civil
war. Prime minister shook hands with Palestenian leader, that night
missiles rained down on Gaza. Jordanian Prime Minister stepped off the
plane in Ankara for a visit, he resigned before he even returned to
Jordan, while he was in Ankara. We became closer to Georgia, our dear
leader hugged Saakasvili, the next day Russian tanks rolled into 
Georgia. The Saudi King, who gave our dear leader a medal, an
otherwise healthy man, suffered a seizure afterwards and became
paralyzed. Our Prime Minister went to Iraq, while he was in Iraq the
Iraqi parliament was stormed, ministers were taken hostage, 45 people
died. We did an "African opening", then Tunisia, Iovery Coast, all
kinds of African countries went to the gutter. We invited al-Bashir to
Turkey served him food, Sudan was split into two. Argentinian
President came, his travel allowence was stolen before he even came
in, after he returned he declared he now has cancer. Albanian prime
minister came to Turkey for a wedding, he was the best man for our
dear leader's son Bilal, next morning he had to be rushed to the
hospital his gallbladder had to be taken out. We declared year 2010 as
"the Year of Japan", in 2011 they were flattened with tsunami, with
their nuclear station melting down on them. Our President went to
South Korea, for the first time in 50 years the North launched a
missile. Greek prime minister came to our Winter Olympics, Greece
experienced an uprising, he resigned. Iraqi President Talabani met our
prime minister, what a meeting that must have been, noone has heard of
him since, some say he is in coma tied to a machine, some say he
died. Romanian prime minister came to visit, signed bunch of
agreements, he resigned the moment he landed back in his
country. Spanish prime minister started an "alliance of civilizations"
with our PM, poor guy's political career was finished shortly
thereafter. Our good friend Silvio, Italy's richest man, went to jail,
had to perform public duty as punishment, they made him pick up trash
in a nursing home. Prime Minister of Portugal met our President, shook
his hand, then immediately went to his President and gave him his
resignation. We lifted visas with Ukraine, Ukranian prime minister was
arrested. We formed contacts with Poland, Polish president's plane
crashed and he died. Our leader of century announced he would go to
Kosova, they hung all kinds of posters in Kosova for him, Kosovian
government fell 12 hours before he got there. Our leader of the
century announced he would go to USA, but Obama must have sensed the
bad fortune coming his way, he posed with a baseball bat the visit was
canceled. But our leader persisted, he would not give up, he managed
to visit USA the next year, before he came back thunderstorms ravaged
America, people died, the entire state of Oklahoma was declared a
disaster zone. Our PM announced he would go to Palestine to sort out
disagreements between al Fateh and Hamas, even the announcement of
this must have been  enough, for the Palestenian authority
resigned. Our President went to Sweden, their princess known as
Cinderalla dropped dead. One of the bodyguards protecting our
President during his visit was there with the princess when their car
flew in the canal where they sank. NATO secretary general came, he
fell down the stairs at his hotel, his hand was broken at the
wrist. Georgian president came for a visit, he thought he could visit
the Georgian bikers in TR while he was here, he rode a bicycle for
show, fell off, breaking his arm. Burkino Faso secretary of state came
to visit, during the press briefing together with our minister kept
talking and talking and talking, Burkino Faso minister could not take
this and passed out, they barely brought him back to conciousness at
the hospital. Our guys went to Mursi, they showed him a good
back-slapping friendhip, there was a coup in Egypt, Mobarak came out
of the cage, Mursi went in in his place. Our leader of the century
went to Argentina for a vote on the Olympics, he merely said hi to the
Argentian president, she suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. Olympics was
given to Tokyo, our leader said "I congratulate the governor of
Tokyo", he promptly resigned. With South Africa we lifted visas,
Mandela died. Angelina Jolie came for a visit shook hands with our
guys, then she went back and had her tits removed, then divorced her
husband. Our President had the German President as guest in his
hometown Kayseri, he even went to Germany for a return of visit,
Germany experienced the resignation of of its President for the first
time in its history.  Spanish PM came to visit, we all started
wondering "what kind of bad luck will fall upon the Spanish
government?". The juju hit their king instead, his daughter and
son-in-law were persecuted, their officials didn't care about their
count, duke titles they confiscated their property. Our President went
to Italy, their government resigned. President stayed at Rome, he
really wanted to go to Florence apparently but could not go due to
weather acting up. I guess someone must have thought that makes
Florence the luckies city in the world, they gave its mayor to
permission to form the next government. Our President also went to
Letonia, one supermarket collapsed, 54 ppl died, Letonian government
fell. The French President was doing just fine without getting tangled
with our guys, but decided on a state visit to Ankara, three days
before he arrived he was caught with his mistress, first-lady was
hospitalized, they seperated. Ukranian president was a guest in Ankara
with our PM, Ukraine tumbled into civil war, the President escaped to
Russia to save his life. To improve his country's image in TR the
Italian ambassador brought the first Ferrari driven by Michael
Schumacher, he displayed it, in less than a month Michael Schumacher
hit his head on a rock, fell into a coma. British Queen gave our
President a medal of honor, knighthood, Brits left the EU.

Our President [Erdogan this time] announced he was going to
Netherlands, the prince of Netherlands experienced an accident he was
buried under snow, fell into a vegetative state. Our President arrived
in Netherlands, their government fell. Netherlands Queen came to TR
for return of visit, gave our President a medal, the prince died,
their queen gave up the crown.














