# Ammonia

### An H2 Carrier

How do we transport hydrogen? Usually pressurized tanks are used as a
solution. For a cheaper alternative researchers are looking at
"hydrogen carriers", substances which contain H2, but can be carried
efficiently.

Among these products ammonia stands out. Ammonia is advantageous in
transportation and storage because it has large hydrogen content per
unit volume, and is easily liquefiable (8.46 atm at 20°C). So existing
liquid transportation methods can carry it. The formula is for ammonia
NH3, hydrogen H2. Two H's as we see are in NH3.

There is already a huge infrastructure for producing ammonia. It is
produced about 150 million tons per year. Ammonia is used in cleaning
products, known for its sharp smell and ability to clean any kind of
grease. In movies, if dude passed out, someone brings a cloth to his
nose, he smell it, and wakes right the f--k up. That's ammonia.

Clean production methods: Folks at George Washington University came
up with an approach that uses air and water as a source of H2 . Air is
made up of 78% N2 . In their process the bubble of wet air is passed
through a mixture of tiny particles of iron oxide and molten NaOH and
KOH. When electricity is applied H2 is extracted from water and allows
H2O and air to interact directly to form NH3.

How to use ammonia as fuel: either convert it to hydrogen as needed
and use H2 fuel cells for power. Some are also looking at ammonia fuel
cells to use NH3 directly in the FC. No carbon emissions in either
case.

[Link](https://ammoniaindustry.com/haldor-topsoes-solid-oxide-electrolyzer/)

[Danish company] Haldor Topsoe has greatly improved the near-term
prospects for green ammonia by announcing a demonstration of its
next-generation ammonia synthesis plant. This new technology uses a
solid oxide electrolysis cell to make synthesis gas (hydrogen and
nitrogen), which feeds Haldor Topsoe’s existing technology: the
Haber-Bosch plant. The product is ammonia, made from air, water, and
renewable electricity ...

“We expect that ammonia can be used for transportation and efficient
storage of energy. The greatest advantage of ammonia is that it has a
high energy density which makes it an effective fuel and energy
storage option – and it can thereby solve some of the most important
challenges of creating a sustainable energy system of the future,”
says project leader, Senior Principal Scientist John Bøgild Hansen. ...

In conventional plants today, ammonia is made by combining hydrogen,
produced from coal or natural gas or another polluting fuel, with
nitrogen, produced by an air separation unit (ASU). Polluting
hydrocarbons aren’t the only viable source of hydrogen but, in most
places, they are the cheapest. I’ve previously written about how
today’s natural gas-fed Haber-Bosch plant is almost perfectly energy
efficient, due to decades of incremental innovation co-optimizing the
steam methane reformation (SMR) units, which produce hydrogen from
natural gas, and the HB units.

Since the start of the 20th Century, however, ammonia plants around
the world have used electrolyzers to produce hydrogen from water,
making industrial quantities of carbon-free “green” ammonia. Due to
economics, only a couple of these plants still operate today. This
technology always uses alkaline electrolysis cells (AEC) to produce
the hydrogen that is fed to the HB unit. AEC is a mature technology
but, unlike SMR, it did not evolve alongside HB; it has not been
integrated and co-optimized over decades into the design and
engineering of an ammonia plant. ...

<a name='afc'/>

### Ammonia Fuel-Cells

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5ejL65tKsGM?start=452" title="SIP Energy Carriers -The Innovation for Ammonia Fuel in Japan-" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Link](https://www.logisticsmiddleeast.com/34956-major-project-to-convert-offshore-vessel-to-run-on-ammonia-powered-fuel-cell)

The project will see an offshore vessel, Viking Energy, which is owned
and operated by Eidesvik and on contract to energy major Equinor, have
a large 2MW ammonia fuel cell retrofitted, allowing it to sail solely
on the clean fuel for up to 3,000 hours annually. As such the project
will demonstrate that long-range zero-emission voyages with high power
on larger ships is possible.

[Paper](https://research.polyu.edu.hk/en/publications/carbon-free-sustainable-energy-technology-direct-ammonia-fuel-cel)

The low temperature [alkaline anion exchange membrane direct ammonia
fuel-cell] AEM-DAFCs part in this article not only clearly reveals the
ammonia oxidation mechanisms and the effects of each component on the
fuel cell performance, but also provides possible future research
directions from perspectives on materials design for electrode
catalysts and AEMs, respectively...

AEM-DAFCs usually supply air and water vapor into cells at the
cathode, and the oxygen with react with water in the air to form
hydroxide ions. As the alkaline membrane employs the exchange of
anions, those hydroxide ions travel to the anode side through the
membrane. While the ammonia is diffused into anode side, it will react
with those hydroxide ions in the anode catalyst layer to form nitrogen
and water molecules.

In recent years, the development of low temperature AEM-DAFCs and high
temperature SO-DAFCs have been made to address issues regarding to en­
ergy conversion systems. For the low temperature AEM-DAFCs, non-
platinum group catalysts were developed with a low cost and higher
catalytic activity for the AOR. Also, the hydroxide membrane with a
high ionic conductivity and mechanical strength was demonstrated. On
the other hand, improvements on the novel electrode and electrolyte
materials also have been made for the high temperature SO-DAFCs, as
shown in the record, the highest peak power density of 1380 mW/ cm 2
at 850 C was obtained. However, the current development for DAFCs is
still in an early stage, which is far away from commercialization. As
discussed earlier, the low temperature AEM-DAFCs need to address the
issues on ammonia cross-over, chemical durability of membrane elec­
trolyte and low catalytic activity electro-catalysts

[Paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/294579196_Ammonia-fed_fuel_cells_A_comprehensive_review)

Xu et al.  reported the first direct NH 3 BH 3 fuel cell based on an
NaOH electro- lyte [126], while a direct ammonia borane fuel cell
based on an alkaline membrane electrolyte has also been
demonstrated. A study of the use of ammonia borane as the fuel in an
alkaline fuel-cell power supply achieved a power density of 315 mW cm
C 2 at ambient pressure and near ambient temperature

References

[Ammonia as Fuel](https://youtu.be/5ejL65tKsGM)

[Direct Combustion](https://youtu.be/5ejL65tKsGM?t=107)

[CSIRO](../../2018/10/csiro.html)

[Bill David Presentation](https://youtu.be/qEut7o-b5hY?t=250)

[GenCell and Ammonia](2019/07/gencell.html)

[[⇪Up]](h2-storage.html)
