# H2 Production via Biology

[DOE](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/hydrogen-production-microbial-biomass-conversion)

In fermentation-based systems, microorganisms, such as bacteria, break
down organic matter to produce hydrogen. The organic matter can be
refined sugars, raw biomass sources such as corn stover, and even
wastewater. Because no light is required, these methods are sometimes
called "dark fermentation" methods...

Why Is This Pathway Being Considered? Biomass is an abundant domestic
resource, and many microbes have evolved to efficiently break down
biomass to produce hydrogen and other products. Fermentation has
already been used as an industrial technology to generate biofuels and
other products, and many of the challenges to scaling up systems have
been addressed for different products, allowing hydrogen researchers
to focus on the challenges unique to hydrogen production. MEC-based
systems have the potential to produce hydrogen from resources that
otherwise can’t be used for fuel production, and could reduce the
large amount of energy normally needed for wastewater treatment while
producing a valuable fuel in the form of hydrogen. These two pathways
can be combined to maximize the hydrogen yield from the starting
biomass feedstock.

[Link](https://lighthouse.mq.edu.au/article/september2/designer-bacteria-could-fuel-the-future-with-cheap-hydrogen)

Designer bacteria could fuel the future with cheap
hydrogen.. Macquarie synthetic biologists have made a breakthrough in
renewable energy production by creating genetically-engineered
sugar-loving bacteria that can produce on-demand, zero-emission
hydrogen fuel..

The genetic engineering of the microbes is partly funded by a $1.1
million grant from the Australian Government’s Renewable Energy Agency
(ARENA) and supported by industry partners BOC Australia and
Bioplatforms Australia.

'This is renewable energy that uses a two-part system; first, the
bacteria consume the sugar and as it digests the sugar it produces the
hydrogen gas,' [researcher] explains...

Farming bacteria to produce hydrogen also has economic and
environmental advantages – in the right setting, bacteria rapidly
multiply, they are cheap to create and don’t need much space...

The University team has used genetic engineering approaches to change
the DNA of certain strains of E. coli bacteria to produce hydrogen
from sugars.

By accelerating the metabolism of the bacteria and finding the optimum
conditions for production, they have produced a strain that makes
hydrogen at rates higher than any previous published rates of
bacterial bio-hydrogen.

[[⇪Up]](h2-production.html)
