# Carbon Nanotubes

[Link](https://www.azonano.com/news.aspx?newsID=38288)

Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) can be utilized for hydrogen
storage as they are cost-effective, environmentally acceptable, and
exhibit excellent performance in adsorption and desorption processes...

The development of high hydrogen storage capabilities in carbon
nanomaterials such as graphene oxide and CNTs has increased the focus
on H2 storage in solid materials. Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are
excellent H2 storage materials because of their large surface area and
small mass concentration. Adsorption and desorption are two very
effective methods for storing hydrogen in carbon-containing solids...

The approach of aerosol-assisted CVD (AACVD) was used to generate
multi-walled Purified multi-walled carbon nanotubes were used in this
study to significantly enhance hydrogen storage capabilities..

The 15% pure carbon nanotube specimen had the highest specific surface
area, which was nearly ten times greater than the other
materials. According to Raman tests and TEM examinations, the purified
MWCNTs contain minimal flaws and a crystalline structure in the
graphene sheets.

Results also indicated that pure MWCNTs have outstanding hydrogen
adsorption properties since they can adsorb more H2 molecules than
un-purified carbon nanotubes with a perfect hexagonal lattice. The
synthesis circumstances also influence the shape and storage capacity
of CNTs and the purification method utilized.

[Link](https://www.chemistryworld.com/news/carbon-nanotubes-for-hydrogen-storage/3000742.article)

Researchers design 3D carbon-based nanotube matrix that can store and
release hydrogen extremely efficiently.. Researchers in Germany have
designed a 3D carbon-based nanotube matrix that can store and release
hydrogen..

[Researchers at] Technical University of Dresden have now used a
computer-based approach to design a 3D carbon nanotube structure that
can store more hydrogen at room temperature than any other
carbon-based material. ’This is a top down approach from advanced
mathematics, to geometry, to computer modelling, to chemical
properties,’ Leoni says. The resulting material would be lightweight,
cheap to make and non-toxic, say the researchers, meaning it would be
suitable for large scale production...

The US Department of Energy’s target for hydrogen storage materials by
2015 is 6wt% - six per cent of the combined weight of the material
after gas adsorption should be stored hydrogen. Leoni’s new nanotube
material has a total hydrogen uptake of 5.5wt% at room temperature
which suggests it could be an ideal candidate..

Inspired by natural sponges, the team designed a computer model that
placed carbon nanotubes in the hole positions of a theoretical sponge
network. ’Putting cylinders next to each other is a way of packing
them. But there is another way - to put them so they cross over each
other, like the holes in a sponge. Using modelling we found how many
arrangements the nanotubes could be arranged in to fit this criteria,’
Leoni tells Chemistry World.

The carbon nanotubes were arranged in parallel, but with none of them
intersecting. Each nanotube is in contact with others, but not all the
way along the edge of the nanotube. After hydrogen adsorption
simulations, the team found that these structures adsorbed a
significant amount of hydrogen.

[[Up]](h2-storage.html)
