# H2 Production From Coal / CCS

IEAGHG Report - [PDF](https://ieaghg.org/docs/General_Docs/Reports/2014-03.pdf)

*The IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme (IEAGHG) was formed in 1991,
constitutes an autonomous and independent framework within the
International Energy Agency (IEA) network*

In recent years IEAGHG has undertaken a series of studies on the
performance and costs of plants incorporating the three leading CO2
capture technologies: post combustion, oxy- combustion and
pre-combustion capture...

The study also assesses the following hydrogen production plants, all
based on GE oxygen blown gasification and Selexol solvent scrubbing:

* Plant with high net electricity co-production, including two 130MW e
E class gas turbines

* Plant with intermediate net electricity co-production, including two
77MW e F class gas turbines

* Plant with low electricity co-production, including a PSA off-gas
fired boiler.  All of these baseline plants have 90% CO2 capture...

This study assessed the technical feasibility and costs of achieving a
higher level of CO2 capture (around 98%) in oxy-combustion and IGCC
plants. In the oxy- combustion case this was achieved by passing the
vent gas from CO2 purification through a membrane separation
unit. For gasification based plants an additional MDEA solvent
scrubbing stage was added after the Selexol scrubber...

A summary of the performance of the baseline power plants with and
without capture is given in [table below]

![](h2-coal-01.png)

CO2 capture almost eliminates SOx emissions and also reduces NOx emissions..

Levelised costs of electricity (LCOE) and CO2 avoidance cost (CAC) are
shown [below]. The costs of the IGCC plants are higher than those of
the pulverised coal combustion plants, mainly because of higher
capital costs and higher fixed operating and maintenance (O+M) costs,
particularly maintenance costs...

![](h2-coal-02.png)

The thermal efficiencies of power plants with CCS based on pulverised
coal combustion with post combustion capture, oxy-combustion and IGCC
with pre-combustion capture are 34.8 - 35.7% LHV basis, which is
around 9 percentage points lower than a reference pulverised coal
plant without capture.

The levelised cost of base load electricity generation is about 92
€/MWh for boiler-based plants with oxy-combustion or post combustion
capture and 115 €/MWh for IGCC plants with pre-combustion
capture. This is about 75-125% higher than the reference pulverised
coal plant without CCS...

The net efficiency of producing hydrogen by coal gasification with CCS
is 57.8% on an LHV basis (65.5% HHV basis) and the levelised cost of
hydrogen is 16.1 €/GJ LHV basis (13.6 €/GJ HHV). 

[PDF](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/228537942_Prospects_for_building_a_hydrogen_energy_infrastructure)

![](h2-coal-03.png)







[[⇪Up]](h2-production.md)


