# H2 Production via Electrolysis

[DOE](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/hydrogen-production-electrolysis)

Electrolysis is a promising option for carbon-free hydrogen production
from renewable and nuclear resources. Electrolysis is the process of
using electricity to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. This
reaction takes place in a unit called an electrolyzer. Electrolyzers
can range in size from small, appliance-size equipment that is
well-suited for small-scale distributed hydrogen production to
large-scale, central production facilities that could be tied directly
to renewable or other non-greenhouse-gas-emitting forms of electricity
production.

![](h2-electrolysis-01.png)

Like fuel cells, electrolyzers consist of an anode and a cathode
separated by an electrolyte. Different electrolyzers function in
different ways, mainly due to the different type of electrolyte
material involved and the ionic species it conducts.

Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Electrolyzers

In a polymer electrolyte membrane (PEM) electrolyzer, the electrolyte
is a solid specialty plastic material.

Water reacts at the anode to form oxygen and positively charged
hydrogen ions (protons).  The electrons flow through an external
circuit and the hydrogen ions selectively move across the PEM to the
cathode.  At the cathode, hydrogen ions combine with electrons from
the external circuit to form hydrogen gas. Anode Reaction: 2H2O → O2 +
4H+ + 4e- Cathode Reaction: 4H+ + 4e- → 2H2

Alkaline Electrolyzers

Alkaline electrolyzers operate via transport of hydroxide ions (OH-)
through the electrolyte from the cathode to the anode with hydrogen
being generated on the cathode side. Electrolyzers using a liquid
alkaline solution of sodium or potassium hydroxide as the electrolyte
have been commercially available for many years. Newer approaches
using solid alkaline exchange membranes (AEM) as the electrolyte are
showing promise on the lab scale.

Solid Oxide Electrolyzers

Solid oxide electrolyzers, which use a solid ceramic material as the
electrolyte that selectively conducts negatively charged oxygen ions
(O2-) at elevated temperatures, generate hydrogen in a slightly
different way.

Steam at the cathode combines with electrons from the external circuit
to form hydrogen gas and negatively charged oxygen ions.  The oxygen
ions pass through the solid ceramic membrane and react at the anode to
form oxygen gas and generate electrons for the external circuit.
Solid oxide electrolyzers must operate at temperatures high enough for
the solid oxide membranes to function properly (about 700°–800°C,
compared to PEM electrolyzers, which operate at 70°–90°C, and
commercial alkaline electrolyzers, which typically operate at less
than 100°C). Advanced lab-scale solid oxide electrolyzers based on
proton-conducting ceramic electrolytes are showing promise for
lowering the operating temperature to 500°–600°C. The solid oxide
electrolyzers can effectively use heat available at these elevated
temperatures (from various sources, including nuclear energy) to
decrease the amount of electrical energy needed to produce hydrogen
from water.

Electrolysis is a leading hydrogen production pathway to achieve the
Hydrogen Energy Earthshot goal of reducing the cost of clean hydrogen
by 80% to $1 per 1 kilogram in 1 decade ("1 1 1"). Hydrogen produced
via electrolysis can result in zero greenhouse gas emissions,
depending on the source of the electricity used.

[Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrolysis_of_water)

Current best processes for water electrolysis (PEM or alkaline
electrolysis) have an effective electrical efficiency of 70–80%,
producing 1 kg of hydrogen requires 50–55 kW⋅h of electricity.

[[⇪Up]](h2-production.md)
