# Metal Hydrides

### Alane (Aluminum Trihydride)

[Link](https://phys.org/news/2016-09-team-alane-hydrogen-fuel-option.amp)

Team discovers way to make alane a better hydrogen fuel option for
vehicles.

"Alane is great because it meets all of the criteria put forth by the
Department of Energy for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles for energy
capacity, weight, system temperature, and cost" said Vitalij Pecharsky
... Professor of Materials Science. "Aluminum is cheap, hydrogen is
abundant [... but f]or the longest time it's been considered
impossible to use for vehicle applications" ..

Researchers paired the predictive advantages of computational analysis
with physical experiment to tackle the applied materials
challenge. Along with titanium catalyst dopants and hydrogen,
theorists looked at vacancy defects, or missing aluminum, on the
surface of aluminum powders and established that this combination
working in concert is critical to the low-energy formation of
alane. Because such defects can be produced by ball milling to break
up mechanically the atomic structure of the metal, experimentalists
ball-milled aluminum powders in combination with hydrogen and
titanium, and they confirmed the prediction by producing AlH3, or
alane. The process used significantly less pressure, only about 5,000
PSI (or 30 times less pressure), to create alane than that needed for
equilibrium methods.

[TdWorld](https://www.tdworld.com/generation-and-renewables/next-chapter-story-hydrogen-power)

Ardica specializes in the production of Alane, a highly stable,
extremely lightweight hydrogen powder now used by a select set of
customers in industrial and military applications. The U.S. Army has
been working closely with Ardica for many years to test Alane’s
superior ability to power a wide range of mobile and vehicular
applications. By replacing traditional batteries, Alane greatly
reduces weight and extends operations while increasing the safety and
efficiency of the soldiers.

The U.S. Army chose Alane because it can be stored, shipped, stocked,
and accessed easily. Alane does not lose its energy potential over
time and is unaffected by temperature variations. It does not require
massive capital investment to develop new infrastructure, and can be
recycled and regenerated"

### Manganese Hydride

[Link](https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/news/new-material-could-unlock-potential-for-hydrogen-powered-vehicle-revolution)

Scientists have discovered a new material that could hold the key to
unlocking the potential of hydrogen powered vehicles.

As the world looks towards a gradual move away from fossil fuel
powered cars and trucks, greener alternative technologies are being
explored, such as electric battery powered vehicles.

Another ‘green’ technology with great potential is hydrogen
power. However, a major obstacle has been the size, complexity, and
expense of the fuel systems – until now.

An international team of researchers, led by Professor David Antonelli
of Lancaster University, has discovered a new material made from
manganese hydride that offers a solution. The new material would be
used to make molecular sieves within fuel tanks - which store the
hydrogen and work alongside fuel cells in a hydrogen powered ‘system’.

The material, called KMH-1 (Kubas Manganese Hydride-1), would enable
the design of tanks that are far smaller, cheaper, more convenient and
energy dense than existing hydrogen fuel technologies, and
significantly out-perform battery-powered vehicles.

Professor Antonelli, Chair in Physical Chemistry at Lancaster
University and who has been researching this area for more than 15
years, said: “The cost of manufacturing our material is so low, and
the energy density it can store is so much higher than a lithium ion
battery, that we could see hydrogen fuel cell systems that cost five
times less than lithium ion batteries as well as providing a much
longer range – potentially enabling journeys up to around four or five
times longer between fill-ups.”

The material takes advantage of a chemical process called Kubas
binding. This process enables the storage of hydrogen by distancing
the hydrogen atoms within a H2 molecule and works at room
temperature. This eliminates the need to split, and bind, the bonds
between atoms, processes that require high energies and extremes of
temperature and need complex equipment to deliver.

The KMH-1 material also absorbs and stores any excess energy so
external heat and cooling is not needed. This is crucial because it
means cooling and heating equipment does not need to be used in
vehicles, resulting in systems with the potential to be far more
efficient than existing designs.

The sieve works by absorbing hydrogen under around 120 atmospheres of
pressure, which is less than a typical scuba tank. It then releases
hydrogen from the tank into the fuel cell when the pressure is
released.

The researchers’ experiments show that the material could enable the
storage of four times as much hydrogen in the same volume as existing
hydrogen fuel technologies

[Link](https://elkodaily.com/lifestyles/professor-hanington-s-speaking-of-science-storing-hydrogen-in-a/article_a400c9cf-afbb-5668-aff1-c046fa347470.html)

[Kubagen](https://www.kubagen.co.uk)






[[Up]](h2-storage.html)


