# H2 From Methane (Natural Gas)

[[-]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0196890422000413)

• We investigated the costs and GHG emissions of three blue hydrogen
  production technologies.

• Blue hydrogen cost ranges from $1.69-$2.55 per kg H2 depending on
  the production technology.

• Autothermal reforming (ATR) with carbon capture and storage (CCS)
  and natural gas decomposition with CCS produce H2 has the lowest and
  highest cost, respectively.

• Blue hydrogen from ATR process has the lowest GHG emissions, 3.91
  kgCO2eq/kg H2.

• The economics of a steam reforming plant depends on the CO2 capture
  rate.

Interest in blue hydrogen production technologies is growing. Some
researchers have evaluated the environmental and/or economic
feasibility of producing blue hydrogen, but a holistic assessment is
still needed. Many aspects of hydrogen production have not been
investigated. There is very limited information in the literature on
the impact of plant size on production and the extent of carbon
capture on the cost and life cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of
blue hydrogen production through various production pathways. Detailed
uncertainty and sensitivity analyses have not been included in most of
the earlier studies. This study conducts a holistic comparative cost
and life cycle GHG emissions’ footprint assessment of three natural
gas-based blue hydrogen production technologies – steam methane
reforming (SMR), autothermal reforming (ATR), and natural gas
decomposition (NGD) to address these research gaps.

A hydrogen production plant capacity of 607 tonnes per day was
considered. For SMR, based on the percentage of carbon capture and
capture points, we considered two scenarios, SMR-52% (indicates 52%
carbon capture) and SMR-85% (indicates 85% carbon capture). A scale
factor was developed for each technology to understand the hydrogen
production cost with a change in production plant size. Hydrogen cost
is 1.22, 1.23, 2.12, 1.69, 2.36, 1.66, and 2.55 $/kg H2 for SMR, ATR,
NGD, SMR-52%, SMR-85%, ATR with carbon capture and sequestration
(ATR-CCS), and NGD with carbon capture and sequestration (NGD-CCS),
respectively. The results indicate that when uncertainty is
considered, SMR-52% and ATR are economically preferable to NGD and
SMR-85%. SMR-52% could outperform ATR-CCS when the natural gas price
decreases and the rate of return increases.

[[⇪Up]](h2-production.md)
