# H2 Safety

[H2 Central](https://hydrogen-central.com/why-hydrogen-safer-you-might-think-bayotech/)

Hydrogen is the lightest of all elements – it’s fourteen times lighter
than air and rises quickly in the event of a leak, dispersing
harmlessly into the atmosphere. Unlike gasoline, hydrogen will not
pool on the ground, potentially contaminating water sources and soil,
or creating a catastrophe if ignited.

Fossil fuels pose significant health and environmental safety threats
when leaked, spilled, or combusted. Hydrogen leaks are non-toxic, this
is in steep contrast to other fuels. If diesel gets into the
waterways, it can cause serious pollution to rivers, streams and
groundwater.

Hydrogen is less combustible. Gasoline in the air is flammable at a
lower concentration limit of 1.4%, compared to hydrogen’s 4%. To put
it another way, gasoline is two to three times more flammable in the
air. The optimal mixture for hydrogen combustion is 29%—which in
reality is quite unusual, since hydrogen rises and will generally
diffuse. Gasoline vapor’s optimal mixture for combustion is only 2%—a
ratio that is very easy to reach.

 In the unlikely event of ignition, hydrogen burns faster than
gasoline and with a lower radiant heat due to the absence of
carbon. Therefore, the risk of secondary fires due to hydrogen is also
lower. BTW: Modern pressurized hydrogen storage tanks are designed to
make it impossible for sources of ignition (oxidizers) to come into
contact with the fuel...

Robust Safety Measures

Hydrogen has been safely used in a variety of applications for over
half a century—giving time for scientists and engineers to develop and
implement rigorous safety protocols.  

The Department of Energy and other global entities have created safety
codes and standards based on decades of research and testing by
private sector companies. These standards have helped build processes
that mitigate potential harms.

<a name='atmo'/>

Atmosphere

H2 is a light molecule if it in the atmosphere it will leak into space
[2]. Some observed [1] that hydrogen in the atmosphere can destroy a
molecule known as the hydroxyl radical that otherwise destroys
methane—a gas that contributes to greenhouse warming, but the problem
here is methane itself, whose emission would be cut anyway due to a
clean alternative being available now, the alternative being hydrogen.

Reference

[1] https://www.caryinstitute.org/news-insights/blog-translational-ecology/hydrogen-fuels

[2] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atmospheric_escape





