# Thermo-Chemical Water Splitting

Solar

[DOE](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/hydrogen-production-thermochemical-water-splitting)

Thermochemical water splitting uses high temperatures—from
concentrated solar power or from the waste heat of nuclear power
reactions—and chemical reactions to produce hydrogen and oxygen from
water. This is a long-term technology pathway, with potentially low or
no greenhouse gas emissions.

Thermochemical water splitting processes use high-temperature heat
(500°–2,000°C) to drive a series of chemical reactions that produce
hydrogen. The chemicals used in the process are reused within each
cycle, creating a closed loop that consumes only water and produces
hydrogen and oxygen. The necessary high temperatures can be generated
in the following ways:

Concentrating sunlight onto a reactor tower using a field of mirror
"heliostats,"..

Using waste heat from advanced nuclear reactors.

Numerous solar thermochemical water-splitting cycles have been
investigated for hydrogen production, each with different sets of
operating conditions, engineering challenges, and hydrogen production
opportunities. In fact, more than 300 water-splitting cycles are
described in the literature.

Two examples of thermochemical water splitting cycles [are] the
"direct" two-step cerium oxide thermal cycle and the "hybrid" copper
chloride cycle...

Solar-and nuclear-driven high-temperature thermochemical
water-splitting cycles produce hydrogen with near-zero greenhouse gas
emissions using water and either sunlight or nuclear energy...

Exciting progress continues in this field, leveraging synergies with
concentrated solar power technologies, and with emerging solar-fuel
production technologies.

<a name='thorium'/>

Nuclear, Molten Salt

A molten salt reactor (MSR) is a class of nuclear fission
reactor in which the primary nuclear reactor coolant and/or the fuel
is a molten salt mixture... 1960's Molten-Salt Reactor Experiment
aimed to prove the concept of a nuclear power plant which implements a
thorium fuel cycle in a breeder reactor. Increased research into
Generation IV reactor designs began to renew interest in the
technology, with multiple nations having projects and, as of September
2021, China is on the verge of starting its TMSR-LF1 thorium MSR..

A further key characteristic of MSRs is operating temperatures of
around 700 °C (1,292 °F), significantly higher than traditional LWRs
at around 300 °C (572 °F).. economical hydrogen production.

[[⇪Up]](h2-production.html)
