# H2 Underground Storage

### Salt Caverns

[Link](https://www.pv-magazine.com/2020/06/16/hydrogen-storage-in-salt-caverns/)

Researchers in Germany have identified salt caverns as a feasible and
flexible solution for hydrogen storage. They also revealed that Europe
has the potential to inject hydrogen in bedded salt deposits and salt
domes, with a total storage capacity of 84.8 PWh.

The researchers said the storage of hydrogen in salt caverns is
similar to that of natural gas, as they have similar needs for cavity
design, construction and operation. They differ only in the materials
in access wells, cavern heads, and transmission infrastructure.

“Natural gas storage in underground cavities has been practiced for
decades,” the researchers said. “The knowledge gained by this can be
easily transferred to the case of hydrogen storage.”

Hydrogen injection.. Compared to depleted oil and gas reservoirs, salt
caverns offer the advantage of lower cushion gas requirements to avoid
rock breakage, as well as the large sealing capacity of rock salt and
the inert nature of salt structures. Salt caverns are also a more
flexible solution because they can ensure high hydrogen injection
rates and withdrawal cycles.

In order to ensure safe storage operations, the minimum thickness of
the hanging wall in a salt cavern should be 75% of the cavern
diameter, while for the foot wall this percentage is reduced to
20%. “A minimum salt thickness of 200 meters and a range of minimum to
maximum depth of 500 meters to 2,000 meters were selected as being
suitable for salt cavern construction,” the scientists explained.

The energy density of salt caverns can vary between 214 kWh and 458
kWh per cubic meter. By multiplying the energy density by the cavern
volume, the researchers found that the capacity of salt caverns in
domal salt structures is the highest at 210 GWh, while that of caverns
located in bedded salt deposit ranges from 65 GWh to 160 GWh. Deeper
salt structures can increase the amount of storage capacity, they
said.

Alvera, The Hydrogen Revolution

The petrochemical industry in Texas need[ed] a continuous supply of
hydrogen to its refineries and their solution has been to store it in
caverns. The Chevron Phillips Clemens Terminal in Texas, for example,
has stored hydrogen in a disused salt cavern since the
1980s. Meanwhile, in the UK, there are three salt caverns safely
storing hydrogen... Underground gas storage involves compressing and
injecting the gas into a cavity of some sort. Gas is released under
pressure when needed. For natural gas, underground storage in disused
fields is remarkably cheap, at something like $10/MWh even if you only
use it once a year...

<a name='pipe'></a>

### Pipe Storage

Alvera, *The Hydrogen Revolution*

[Another] intriguing option is pipe storage. We already know that
pipelines can hold hydrogen gas at pressure, but what’s to stop you
from laying down a series of cheap, standardised pipelines with sealed
ends and using them as storage? A kilometre of pipeline (of the same
diameter and pressure that you’d use for natural gas) could hold
approximately 12 tonnes of hydrogen.

### Lined Rock Cavern

Alvera, *The Hydrogen Revolution*

Another clever idea is to line a rock cavern with a thin layer of
steel. This has been done in Skallen, Sweden, for use with natural
gas. It allows you to ramp up the storage pressure to 200 atmospheres,
because the rock formation carries the main structural load, and would
be cheaper and easier than a massive tank.

[Link](https://www.dailyscandinavian.com/hydrogen-storage-facility-in-sweden-is-has-reached-halfway-point-in-construction)

Construction of the 100-cubic-meter..  rock cavern storage facility 30
meters below ground is done by Vattenfall AB in collaboration with
Swedish steel company SSAB AB..

The cavern is being built via the so-called lined rock cavern (LRC)
approach, which involves covering the walls of the cavern with a
selected matter. The technology for storing gas in a lined rock cavern
(LRC) is well proven and has been used in southern Sweden for about 20
years for storing natural gas. However, the technology is now taking
another step forward as it’s being developed for the first time with
hydrogen gas on a large pilot scale... The finished plant will contain
hydrogen gas pressurized up to 250 bar

[[Up]](h2-storage.html)
