# Waste-to-Hydrogen

[Article](https://www.rechargenews.com/transition/its-much-cheaper-to-produce-green-hydrogen-from-waste-than-renewables/2-1-801160)

California start-up Ways2H can take municipal solid waste (MSW) — the
rubbish thrown away by homes and businesses — as well as plastics and
hazardous medical waste, and convert them into hydrogen — at a far
cheaper cost than green H2 produced from renewables via
electrolysis...

“[The cost] is very much dependent on what kind of feedstock we have,
but typically we are now comfortable at $5 per kilogram,” chief
executive Jean-Louis Kindler tells Recharge. “And we can go down to
about half that, let’s say 3 dollar a kilogram… [within] five
years.”...

Part of the reason why the cost of Ways 2H’s hydrogen is relatively
low is that the raw materials are cost-negative — municipalities pay
companies so-called “tipping fees” to take away their waste...

“There is a [US] Department of Energy report that mentions the
existence of potentially more than a billion tonnes of biomass [waste]
available [annually]. If you extract all the hydrogen out of this, you
would literally have enough hydrogen to produce the equivalent of what
is actually consumed in the US every year as gasoline in motor
vehicles,” he explains...

Another reason to convert MSW, which contains more than 50% biomass,
into hydrogen is that landfill waste is a major source of methane — a
greenhouse gas that is 84 times more harmful to the climate than
CO2 over a 20-year period. Utilising this waste biomass means this
methane would not be released into the atmosphere...

The waste feedstock — from which inert materials such as metal and
glass have been removed — is first processed to reduce the waste to
particles of between 0.5 and 3cm. This is then fed by a screw conveyor
into a gasification vessel, where it is mixed with ceramic beads that
have been heated to around 1,000°C.

At these temperatures, most of the organic waste and plastics are
converted into a mixture of methane, hydrogen, carbon monoxide and
CO2. Solid carbon and minerals remain as char, which is removed
together with other inert materials, such as metal and glass that may
have remained in the mix before preparation.

The gas mixture then enters the reforming vessel, where steam is
added, which breaks down the methane into hydrogen, carbon monoxide
and dioxide, to improve the ratio of hydrogen to more than 50% of the
volume.

Contaminants that may appear, such as chlorine and sulphur are removed
in the process. The resultant syngas is cleaned and a separator
recovers pure hydrogen, while the carbon gases are either released
into the air or captured..

The char that was recovered from the gasification vessel is burned in
a separate vessel to provide the 1,000°C heat, which is used to heat
the ceramic beads.

[[⇪Up]](h2-production.html)


