# Piece of Cake

Mrs May’s priority is to fulfil the Leave campaign’s promise to “take
back control” by ending the free movement of EU citizens to Britain
and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice (ECJ). She has
acknowledged that this means leaving the EU’s single market. But
leaving would be a mistake. Even if it takes control of immigration,
Britain will not be able to cut the numbers much without damaging the
economy, as ministers are slowly realising. And the government is
wrong to claim that there exists some relationship with the single
market that has all the benefits of membership with none of the costs.

It is true that many Britons backed Brexit because they wanted to cut
immigration and regain sovereignty, but they did not vote to make
themselves poorer—as Mrs May’s “hard Brexit” will. Her government has
been characterised by U-turns and her letter this week was more
emollient than some of her earlier statements. Even so, in thrall to
Brexiteering backbenchers and the Eurosceptic press, she is unlikely
to change course now.

Mrs May is not just making the wrong choices, but also downplaying
awkward trade-offs. By promising barrier-free access to the single
market while stopping EU migrants and ending the ECJ’s jurisdiction,
she is still telling Britons they can have their cake and eat
it. Although she concedes that exporters to the EU will have to obey
EU rules, the more Mrs May insists on controlling EU migration and
escaping the ECJ, the less barrier-free will be Britain’s overall
access to the single market. This is not just because free movement of
people is a condition for the EU, nor because it will be hard to
secure tariff-free access for trade in goods, something both sides can
readily agree on. It is because the biggest obstacles swept away by
the single market are not tariffs or customs checks, but non-tariff
barriers such as standards, regulations and state-aid rules. Unless
Britain accepts these, which implies a role for the system’s referee,
the ECJ, it cannot operate freely in the single market—as even
American firms trading in the EU have found.

The most dangerous of Mrs May’s illusions has been her claim that no
deal is better than a bad deal. Her letter this week steps back from
this notion, but only a pace. To revert to trading with the EU only on
World Trade Organisation (WTO) terms would cause serious harm to
Britain’s economy. It would mean the EU imposing tariffs plus a full
panoply of non-tariff barriers on almost half Britain’s exports. No
big country trades with the EU only on WTO terms. An acrimonious
break-up would make it harder to co-operate in such areas as foreign
policy and defence. And it would surely increase the risk of Brexit
triggering Scotland’s exit from the United Kingdom.














