# Fracked Up (and Ammonia)

[audio](https://youtu.be/5feSGZN_Zx0?t=83)

MS (Matt Simmons)

You have this unbelievable hype about shale gas which is probably the
most destructive form of energy we've ever created. [We] destroy
drinking water [and the environment].

MC (Marc Chabot, Interviewer)

We have more than enough natural gas [..]  you read in the papers
about we should start exporting out we have so much of it

MS

That's the silliest thing I've heard it might the adult career [..]
I'd rather believe that the fairy godmother just married Santa
Claus.

MC

You can see this reflected in the markets though Matt if you take a
look at the price of let's say crude oil which is over at seventy and
then you take a look at natural gas which is in the three dollar
range

MS

The tragedy of natural gas is we collapsed the price on the
belief we had a glut. So the people were all promoting shale gas [..]
If you follow the controversy in the Barnett Shale [theirs was] the
only shale gas that we ever basically got out [cost effectively]
because of high gas prices through the use of long extended horizontal
drilling, which has been around thirty years, and then massive amounts
of hydraulic fracking to shove so much water with additives in it down
haul that it busted up the impermeable granite.[We] have destroyed
between 50 and 70 billion gallons of [drinkable] water and what's
really [freaking out the] EPA [is] the disposal issues because the
water basically that comes back up is toxic and they're putting it in
abandoned oil and gas wells and if they reach a fracture [it will
poison the environment, then] we've doomed the fate of Texas. So
follow this EPA frack water disposal issue closely.

MC

Is there anything makes you optimistic

MS

Yeah what's happening here in the Gulf of Maine liquid ammonia that's
real I think it's ironic how much money Silicon Valley plowed into
this to try to see who could do the most to reduce the carbon
footprint and this incredible small group of us here [did great
work].You can create a lot of [wells] in the offshore and have it
right two or three miles offshore and man will perfect the technology
of building these conversion things that look like clean refineries
and turn that into liquid ammonia and the byproduct turns out to be
two really interesting things, [..] pure water and salt both of which
have economic value. I fully believed that Midcoast Maine will end up
being the kind of refinery capital of the 21st century for liquid
ammonia.I've actually become a hero of some of the lobstermen here
that you're down calling me Mr. Liquid ammonia which is I get quite a
kick out of coming from Utah.Â 














