# Week 29

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">these Chinese stocks were worth $207 billion yesterday, and $126 billion today. epic unwind<br><br>have a nice weekend everybody. <a href="https://t.co/jg9DOfZ9wT">pic.twitter.com/jg9DOfZ9wT</a></p>&mdash; Fidel Cashflow (@TangoGrenada) <a href="https://twitter.com/TangoGrenada/status/1418666701944672259?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 23, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


"@fauxRayDalio

Long India, Short China. The trade is taking place before our eyes"

---

WSJ: "A Tech IPO Boom Is Coming to Unicorn-Rich India"

---

"Japan Inc Wants to Become a Hydrogen Superpower.. The Olympics this
time will have people involved in Games carried by 500 hydrogen
powered cars & 100 buses, which are manufactured by @ToyotaMotorCorp &
run on fuelcells"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3zvRdLc)

---

Post country boundaries my ass.. During the 90s there was that talk,
been proven false since. Talking abt administrative boundaries
obviously, gov, regional or supra.. They do matter.

During Brexit final deal they were negotiating details down to the
species of fish. Every damn thing was looked at, and is looked at
through the prism of a border. 

---

One thinker for each domain. No more.

There can only be one.

This way I can guarantee focus.

---

We use a little trick in this site.. I "have a guy" for each sub
domain. That guy (or gal) is the sole voice for that domain. For
anthropology Ian Morris, for social/tech Toffler,
psychology/marketing Rapaille, etc. I weave these pieces together
to achieve [greater-sum](../../2021/04/sum-greater-than-whole-reductionism.html).
In a way I simulate an insitutional setting. But still, u r better off
following MSM. You will rise or sink with the muckers.

---

Wout ed control, outside inst setting, I assume most blogs, substacks
have lesser quality ..  My DIY quality filter.

---

Braciole with gabagool..? I like the idea

---

"@MikeKofiA

One thing people don't know about the Potato Famine was that Ireland
remained a net exporter of food crops at the time. It wasn't that food
was scarce it was that poor citizens couldn't afford it. Modern
industrialized society distributes resources based on class prejudice"

---

*Nobody*, another J. Wick-like movie, w little *True Lies*, *Falling
Down* mixed in.. Well-made. "Guy with normal life goes on a rampage",
are movs like this the drug needed to keep arthritic modern man from
going completely nuts? Satisfying the inner hunter-gatherer?

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aRXb4bJhSSw?start=2651&end=2764" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"My research results at this point thus indicate that we can expect a
halt in economic growth within the next two decades .. organizations
like the IMF have been pointing out recently that we're seeing a
'synchronized slowdown in global growth'"

[Link](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/i-did-data-check-world-model-forecast-global-collapse-branderhorst/)

---

It all started with "what was up with that seventh son of a seventh
son thing?", and down the rabbit hole we go on mysticism, snake
rituals, and *inciaramazione*.

---

Inciaramazione ðŸ˜¶

---

Politico: "The yearslong effort by state and local governments in the
U.S. to force the pharmaceutical industry to help pay to fix a
nationwide opioid addiction and overdose crisis took a major step
forward Tuesday when lawyers for local governments announced they were
on the verge of a $26 billion settlement with the nationâ€™s three
biggest drug distribution companies and the drugmaker Johnson &
Johnson"

---

Arriving Tatars wld have contributed "something" to Anatolia, but what
I am saying is, that something, little as it is (proportional to their
numbers) was Russian culture. 

---

Peeps are not bunch of punks from Central Cuntfuckia. Nor are they
from Crimea, culturally speaking.. Everyone in Asia Minor is closer to
Homer (of Illiad fame) culturally than to some "Kubilay", or
"Genghic".. whatever.

---

Lots of Tatars migrated into Anatolia BTW, estimated to be at
1,800,000 btw 1870-1900. I observed in gobble gobble their descendants
were more willing to embrace the tigger identity, bcz, IMO not only it
offered them "nomadicness" (they also had recently 'arrived', right?)
but also ethnically they cld claim a certain Asiaticness. But Tatars
arriving to TR were likely Russian in nature.. Ops. Then they were
assimilated into Anatolia which is not Turkic either.. So either way,
they are not tiggers. Rejoice.

---

From *The Geography of Ethnic Violence*

"Scratch a Tatar, youâ€™ll find a Russian"

---

Note covid deaths were abt 16,000 per day at its height..

UNICEF: "Every day 19,000 children die from preventable causes"

---

Experiment continues; The ultimate dish, one that u can prepare
everyday, tastes good enough, and has everything needed.. Latest;
onions, cheap chuck, green beans, salt, lemon, olive oil -- all thrown
together and simply cooked. Fine so far.

---

"Mitch McConnell, a polio survivor,Â urged people to get vaccinated 'as
rapidly as possible' at a press conference Tuesday, 'or we're gonna be
back in a situation in the fall that we don't yearn for, that we went
through last year.'"

---

"Queensland establishes Minister for Hydrogen"

[Link](https://t.co/QXUqtEw5Ss)

---

We are so screwed

---

Al Jazeera: "Growing wildfires in western US causing hazy skies on east coast"

---

F24: "Unvaccinated people account for 96% of new Covid-19 cases, says French PM"

---

"Israelâ€™s security forces are â€˜complicitâ€™ in drastic surge in settler
violence, report finds"

---

"@ummjackson

I am often asked if I will 'return to cryptocurrency' or begin
regularly sharing my thoughts on the topic again. My answer is a
wholehearted 'no', but to avoid repeating myself I figure it might be
worthwhile briefly explaining why here"

[Thread](https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353984617914370)

---

CNBC: "The co-creator of dogecoin explains why he doesnâ€™t plan to return to
crypto: Itâ€™s â€˜controlled by a powerful cartel of wealthy figuresâ€™"

---

KyleDunnigan.. he had Zee Ping Ping talking smack in fake Italian
accent, it was hilarious ðŸ¤£ 

---

Newer is better. *Point Break* 2015. Fantastic movie

---

"A 'bacon,' ... a pejorative ..  referred to the fact that swine's
flesh was a meat primarily consumed by England's rural
population. Thus, calling someone a bacon meant they were 'a rustic
clown': a peasant, a bumpkin, a slack-jawed yokel"

---

Jim Carrey's father called him "not just the bacon, the entire pig"
when young. He would send himself thumbling down the stairs for laughs.

---

WSJ: "China Bears Score $7.1 Billion Victory in Long-Running â€˜Pain Tradeâ€™"

---

Kings 21:19

---

"@UTAustin Researchers Just Solved a Major Hurdle-Found a low-cost way
to solve 1/2 of equation, using #sunlight to efficiently split off
oxygen from water"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3BqkdG3)

---

Interesting

"Nearly 40% of Australia's land is uninhabitable. One reason behind
this large landmass being so desolate is the shortage of rainfall"

---

What is *going on* in Texas?

"Texas state Senate passes bill to eliminate requirements that public
schools teach that the Ku Klux Klan is â€˜morally wrong'"

---

Apparently band members went to the same musical academy.. and they
just wanted to do something freely.. I get it now. This is the kind of
stuff you do when u want to 'stretch'. Kinda show off too but it's
about doing whatever, at an extreme.

---

Dirty Loops has no guitar.. Bass, keyboard, and (crazy) vocals carry
the whole thing..

---

"World powers blame China for Microsoft Exchange cyberattack"

---

"@josheidelson

What is the reason to call, say, Tesla, Amazon, and Instacart 'tech'
companies but not, say, Boeing, AT&T, or the New York Times?"

---

All this started bcz of previous President's jailing? How bad was the
man's crime? Couldn't they sentence him, then current President
pardons? Nixon got the pardon... Bcz of a need to respect the
insitution of the Presidency, etc.. But at a practical level these ppl
have a lot of supporters.. they get elected by the people! So why
antagonize the supporters?

---

ðŸ¤£ That was funny

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cW9Wj-ocrpk?start=77&end=84" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Looting in South Africa.. sounds serious

---

<iframe width="340"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-7SZ9vsaKew?start=314&end=416" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Spoon - Hot Thoughts \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/XrLVAQYfeZ4)

---

On the optimality of infrastructural tech choices: If H2 is the energy
carrier, there are many ways to get to it.. Tech will improve those
choices, the process over time will get cheaper and faster. Get H2
through this catalyst, that catalyst, etc. Independent parts can be
researched independently.

With lit batteries, the path, the goal all revolve around on thing:
lithium. No other choice. Now you are stuck; stuck with finite amount
of reserves, stuck with the way batteries are architected, all
stuck. Hallmark of bad engineering; unflexible basis, with a single
point of failure, shoddy architecture the kind that originates from
retarded, shoddy minds.

---

Five9? Good name.. Because in IT "Five Nine uptime", that is machines
being up 99.999% of the time is a big deal..

"@business

LATEST: Zoom to buy cloud service firm Five9 for $14.7 billion"

---

These guys are like soul, w some Michael Jackson added, little Dave
Matthews Band, Latin Jazz of Corea + Weckl style.. it's fantastic.

---

Dirty Loops - Hit Me \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/nls1HtXQe8E)

---

That move at 3:17... Holy shit. This guy is my new Dave Weckl. New
Neil Peart... All of them combined.

---

Dirty Loops - Rock You \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/gYc5zrXC52k)

---

Dirty Loops - Coffee Break is Over \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/aYYFmp9NBTk)

---

"@aravosis

Sheâ€™s a nurse. She urged everybody not to get the vaccine. And sheâ€™s dead"

[Link](https://twitter.com/aravosis/status/1414411482364710914)

---

"The nationâ€™s top infectious disease doctor says the country would
still have smallpox if vaccine hesitancy had had such a loud megaphone"

[Link](https://trib.al/wGmFvPS)

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lXuQKoQCtOc?start=485" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ME_rprRlmMM?end=176" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

US gets the right people, and is culturally IMO adamant about
it.. Look at how Obama, the "black President" deported over two
million immigrants. I know two non-American national swimmers,
brothers, *both* of them won the Green card "lottery".

---

UK was pretty quick in granting British passports to Hong Kong
citizens. IMO they want that high-skilled workforce emigrating to UK.
They care more abt that than human rights.

---

US experienced backlash, bcz it had not built mechanisms to
redistribute. UK does have the mechanisms, just could not generate
enough capability, money to do so.

---

Both Canada and UK took in a lot of immigrants but their GDP Per
Capita was flat. 2% ppl increase with 2% GDP increase means no change.
GDP Per Capita captures capability, power, so it is key.

Looking at graph we can say UK/Canada did not get skilled
immigration. For UK maybe this backfired, led to Brexit?  There are
bunch of new people around you, but you are not getting
disproportionately richer bcz of it ðŸ¤¨

<img width="340" src="twimg/E03sBtlX0Akvzai.jpg"/>

---

Great review of *Pig*..

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2021/07/nicolas-cage-pig-movie-review/619466/)

---

NYT: "No One is Safe. How The Heatwave Has Battered the Wealthy
World.. Floods swept Germany, fires ravaged the American West and
another heat wave loomed, driving home the reality that the worldâ€™s
richest nations remain unprepared for the intensifying consequences of
climate change"

---

"@H2Standard

GKN Aerospace is leading a Swedish national collaboration project
H2JET that will develop important engine subsystems for
hydrogen-propulsion for medium range civil aircraft. Power can be
generated by either direct combustion or by use of a fuelcell.

[Link](https://bit.ly/36Haey1)

---


"@CNNSotu

GOP Sen. Rob Portman says the improvement of IRS enforcement of
existing laws is not included in his proposal as a potential method to
pay for the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure deal"

---

Yes.

"Should they be able to, ethically, legally?"

---

Yes.

"Should the police discourage homeless tents in California's Venice Beach?"

---

"@CalMatters

California is the first state to fund universal basic income pilot
efforts"

---

See I bet the NY voters knew that abt him.. and the stop-and-frisk
thing.. then they made a call. Leader judgement of ppl is not
bad. Policy judgement, not so much.

---

Adams was beaten by the police when young. Dam. 

[Link](https://www.facebook.com/abcplanetamerica/videos/extended-interview-eric-adams/574640500142229/)

---

EPA: "Methane is also a greenhouse gas (GHG), so its presence in the
atmosphere affects the earth's temperature and climate system. Methane
is emitted from a variety of anthropogenic (human-influenced) and
natural sources. ... Methane is more than 25 times as potent as carbon
dioxide at trapping heat in the atmosphere"

---

BTW all carbon, or GHG emitting rocket fuels need to be banned, eg
methane. New Shep used liquid H2 but I believe their bigger rocket,
and some others in the same scale will use methane - not good.

---

BO demonstrated some capability, more than Virgin perhaps. New Shep
took off on its own, wout riding any other vehicle, then the booster
part returned.. There are more pieces here that can be built up for
grander goals.

---

Blue Origin rocket used liquid H2. Clean fuel.

No you cannot go to space with batteries. Inferior technology.

---

Beckley: "Yes history has shown that technological revolutions create
prosperity in the long run but every single time one of these things
has happened they have forced some workers into lower wage jobs or
into unemployment in the short run, and the short run can actually
last an entire lifetime. So if you study the Industrial Revolution,
one of the biggest technological revolutions, for the first 70 years
of the industrial revolution in the Great Britain from 1770 to 1840,
average wages actually stagnated, and living standards declined.  The
average height of men actually shrunk because they had less nutrition
over that 70 years, even as output per worker expanded by nearly 50
percent, that's because the gains from mass mechanization during that
time were largely captured by business elites...

[In our future, due to automation] there could be a world where you
would have sluggish growth, lots of debt, stagnant wages, for at least
a big part of the population, and extreme inequality. If you had that
kind of economic world that of course would breed nationalism and
extremism"

---

Here I list it again; worst polluters in history, responsible for 70%
of all carbon emissions, all time:

US, China, UK, Japan, Germany, India, Russia, France, Canada.

---

Private equity millionaire's son is chosen to go to space by Bezos but
he is "more of a fan" of the Tesla's monkey boy? Dude *who gives a
shit*?

---

"Switzerland's.. Migros [plans to] deliver... its goods with green
hydrogen fuel-cell trucks"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3AXdhjE)

---

I am not entirely convinced Cuban regime wants the ambargo to end..
Why would they? It is the perfect scapegoat. Some during the 90s did
claim convincingly Castro was making moves for it, to keep the
ambargo.

---

Then there was [this](twimg/E6hGDLGWYAYVYiy.jpg)
and [this](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1xmUDnMkyVI1HWFgjp1J9erOw33eMzIKq)
likely hurting Al Gore and later Hilary, respectively, in Florida.

---

There are a boat load of examples where a Dem was screwed bcz of
Cuba..  You could claim Clinton lost gov in 1980 partly bcz of
Castro. Cuba sent refugees to US, Carter dumped them on Arkansas,
there was a ruckus, Cubans escaped from camp and armed citizens nearly
shot them to death. Some other factors were there 2, but the refugee
issue loomed large.

---

Providing "gonzo Internet" to Cuba.. good idea. 

---


