# Week 32

SNAM is one of the world's largest infrastructure companies. Here is
its CEO [on CNBC](https://youtu.be/sZlHFKaKJU0?t=273), talking about
reusing existing pipelines for H2 transport. 

---

He says he was mistakenly cast.. How the hell does that happen?
There was an another actor with same name?

---

Of course.. Pat Stew was on Dune way before TNG.

That's a big fat scifi experience on the ol' CV.

---

Reshare (with some additions)

[Wires vs Pipes](../../2019/03/wirespipes.html)

---

Wage growth

```
2021-06-01    3.835285
2021-07-01    4.702067
```

Inflation

```
2021-06-01  5.391451
2021-07-01  5.365475
```

---

With renewable fuels, the possibility is also wide open for a green
combustion engine.

---

ZeroAvia CEO was on F24, great interview. He used the word 'hydrogen
electric' a lot. Good idea, for marketing.. The "e-word" is associated
with all kinds of 'good things for climate' in people's minds it makes
sense to ride that marketing wave. Technically the use is correct, a
fuel-cell converts H2 into electricity so the whole system *is*
hydrogen-electric. There are BEVs, there are FCEVs -- both are EVs.

But decision makers need to understand what's going on under the hood,
the overall system, in terms of emphasis (and dollars). With H2
electric, electricity comes in to the picture *dead last*, right
before it is used. Until that point the entire production, transport,
storage can remain in gas / liquid / molecules -- no electricity
needed.

---

2003 was year of Iraq invasion, and, I just looked, the year of that
Britney Spears video *Toxic*. How things change. 

---

Ja

"Nichtlineare Methoden"

---

Business Insider: "Delivery wars: Over 100 Amazon delivery companies
are banding together to form a new kind of challenger to UPS and
FedEx"

---

LA Times: "[California] The Dixie fire, now the second-largest blaze
in state history, has burned more than 463,000 acres and destroyed
more than 400 buildings. It has been 26 days since the Dixie fire
ignited"

---

Starving ppl out... old school

"The only real war still going on in Syria is about the remaining
Islamic terrorist groups. Most of the remaining Islamic terrorists are
trapped in northern Syria (Idlib province)... [O]ver 30,000 armed
rebels belonging to various Islamic terrorist groups, none of them
affiliated with [ISIS]. There are also nearly a million
civilians. These rebels have nowhere to go and will fight to the death
rather than surrender... The Assads don’t want any 'fight to death'
battle in Idlib and the Russians unofficially propose a more
traditional tactic for this siege situation; starve them out. While an
ancient and often successful tactic, this approach is currently
considered a war crime by most, but not all, nations"

[Link](https://strategypage.com/qnd/russia/articles/20210806.aspx)

---


NY Intelligencer: "The moderate Democrats are irrationally worried
about passing a big tax hike on the rich, but they *really* want to
pass the bipartisan infrastructure bill. They see the bipartisan bill
as their golden ticket to showing Republican-leaning voters in their
districts that they can work across party lines"

---

My o my.. This computation will have to be done the hard way...

---


To repeat: H2 pipelines can transmit 10 times the energy at one-eighth
the costs associated with electricity transmission lines. Nuke, hydro,
wind generates H2, pipelines carry the molecules.

New slogan: 'deelectrification'. 

[PDF](https://hydrogencouncil.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Hydrogen-Insights-2021-Report.pdf)

---

"Nel Hydrogen Receives Contract for a 1.25 MW Containerized PEM
Electrolyzer for DOE H2@Scale Project in the US.. For installation at
a nuclear power plant in the US, a groundbreaking project for
carbonfree hydrogen production"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3xFAvaW)

---

F24: "[2020] The French government has earmarked 1.5 billion euros
($1.75 billion) for the development of carbon-free aircraft as part of
a support plan for the aviation sector"

[Link](https://www.france24.com/en/20200921-airbus-aims-for-hydrogen-powered-plane-by-2035)

---

Fortune: "[2020] British Airway backs hydrogen plane startup ZeroAvia"

---

US is also there.. There can be "base-off" before major action.

---

BTW there is a kung-fu base in Djibouti. Threat level unknown, but it
is at a chokepoint of sorts.

Jane's Defense: "US to build new storage sites in Saudi
Arabia.. [CENTCOM] said in January that it was evaluating [a site.. ]
as contingency logistics hubs that would enable it to supply and
reinforce its forces without relying on the vulnerable sea route
through the Strait of Hormuz"

---

"Gov. Gavin Newsom plans to announce that California will require all
teachers and school employees to be vaccinated or submit to regular
Covid-19 testing"

[Link](https://www.politico.com/states/california/story/2021/08/10/newsom-to-announce-nations-first-vax-or-test-rules-for-teachers-1389805 )

---

"@steveschale

14% of hospitalized Floridians are on a ventilator.

Nearly all in hospitals are unvaccinated"

---

They use deep neural nets for this sort of stuff, but often simple
stupid logistic regression works well too (a very rudim stat
technique). The amt of LR use at Google would blow your mind.

---

How does it work? You feed gazillion images (in the same format)
against dementia diagnosis 'labels', train it, then for a new similar
input the system spits out a dementia diagnosis.

---

Article should have called it 'nonlinear regression' instead of "AI";
the solution is extremely focused, not the free-range style inputs
people deal with every day with their 'real intelligence'. 

"Artificial Intelligence may diagnose dementia in a day"

---

Yes but then they go ahead and [train](../../2021/03/unrivaled-beckley.html#ruch) with
eachother's enemies too. Did this strategic situation change? Probably not.

WSJ: "China, Russia Hold Military Drills Amid Regional Security Concerns"

---

There is no upside for Dems from "good relations" with Cuba.  

NYT: "Biden Ramps Up Pressure on Cuba, Abandoning Obama’s Approach"

---

NY AG wins again

"Amazon Loses Bid to Halt New York’s Warehouse Covid Probe"

---

Messi in France.. good good

---

"ZAL Center of Applied Aeronautical Research has expanded its hydrogen
infrastructure with a 20-meter-high, 100 m³ tank"

[Link](https://bit.ly/2XfFaUR)

---

"Solar Energy Corporation of India .. Issued a tender to set up a 25
kW green hydrogen pilot project at SNM Hospital in Leh, Ladakh"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3g4TMNp)

---

The inflation expectation is around 4.7, steadily [increased](../../2021/01/stats.html#infexp)
to this from 3.1 back in March. We shall see. 

Vox: "America isn’t panicking about inflation"

---

William Clarke - Lollipop Mama \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/k--8zPBkdHA)

---

Exactly

DW: "German election: What do the terms 'right' and 'left' mean, if
both CDU and SPD are in the center?"

---

DE needs more left, not more shitlibs

DW: "German lawmakers look to end free COVID-19 tests in October"

---

"@BenjySarlin

Cuomo capping off a run for New York in which the prior elected
governor resigned, the LG who took over in the interim didn't run for
re-elect over scandals, the previous AG resigned over abuse
allegations, and the top D and R legislative leaders went to jail in
corruption cases"

---

Daam Cuomo is out.

---

DW: "European Space Agency to do a double fly-by of Venus.. The
European Space Agency will have two spacecraft fly by Venus this
week. One probe was developed with NASA while the other is a joint
project with scientists from Japan"

---

Politico: "After much wrangling and controversy, lawmakers on Tuesday
approved what would be their first-ever crackdown on cryptocurrencies
and taxes... Lawmakers aren’t creating any new taxes on
cryptocurrencies. The main thing they’re doing is imposing on
cryptocurrencies the sort of reporting requirements that apply when
people sell stocks and other securities"

---

"The ‘Hydrogen Olympics’ Lit a Torch for the Clean Fuel’s Future.. An
energy expert explains why Japan—along with much of the rest of the
world—is committing to the clean-burning fuel"

<img width="340" src="twimg/E8Z5rPyWUDQ9vb3.jpg"/>

[Link](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-hydrogen-olympics-lit-a-torch-for-the-clean-fuels-future1)

---

IPS: "What makes banks like JPMorgan, Citi, and Morgan Stanley so
eager to extend these billions in loans — to the rich — at such low
interest rates? One reason: The loans come as close to risk-free as
risk-free could be. A more important reason: Big banks cherish close
relationships with extremely rich people. These rich often run
extremely large corporate empires and can steer their corporate
banking business to the banks that cater to their personal needs...

The best antidote to this gaming of the federal income tax? That may
be the wealth tax legislation that Senator Elizabeth Warren from
Massachusetts introduced this past spring with Representatives Pramila
Jayapal of Washington State and Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania"

[Link](https://ips-dc.org/americas-billionaires-borrowing-their-way-to-ever-more-fabulous-fortunes)

---

Politico: "For the first time, the planet's top scientists said in a
monumental report they have definitively linked greenhouse gas
emissions to the type of disasters driven by a warmer climate that
have touched every corner of the globe this year"

[Link](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/08/09/climate-change-scientists-report-disastrous-502799)

---

AFP: "After the UN issued its starkest report yet on the consequences
of global warming, pressure is on China -- the world's biggest
polluter -- to deliver on its own climate goals"

[Link](http://u.afp.com/Uz55)

---

Math geneology saz Trombo is connected to Smale. Solid.

---

My man Marsden got the proof.. Lovely. And Tromba.

----

Do scifi once, you, I dont want to say 'pegged', but, get a scifi
"pass", or a "badge"; now u can enjoy steady employment on other scifi
movies.. Directors will pick you when they need "a scifi type person".

---

Studded with scifi actors.. understandable given the subject matter.

---

*Snowden* movie was excellent. Stone did a great job.

---

But hey these are just number eff ups. I'll take that any day over
today's "STD", Star Trek Discovery, with its bad writing and bad
directing.

---

Trek TNG ship generates 12.75 billion gigawatts (from *True
Q*). 12.75 billion gigawatts is 12.75 million terrawatts.

Officer says 1 Terrawatt "is more than our ship can generate" (from
*The Masterpiece Society*)

???

---

"@IoanGrillo
 
While drug trafficking violence in the U.S. is often cruelly
ghettoized, in Central America it has consumed entire nations"

---

Food growing, manufacturing, education, how are they delivered? Those
define capabilities, society forms around them. Automated farming,
tablets that can access all classes creates a different world than
bunch of people knee-deep in the mud, hippies or not.

---

NZ monthy temp [averages](https://www.climatestotravel.com/climate/new-zealand).
Itz good in this neighborhood..

| Month | C |
|-------|---
| January |  20	|
| February | 24	|
| March  | 19  |
| April | 16.5 |
| May | 14 |
| June |  11.5 |
| July  | 11 |
| August | 11.5	|
| September | 16 |
| October | 14.5 |
| November | 20	|
| December | 22	|

---

The Guardian: "New Zealand, Iceland, the UK, Tasmania and Ireland are
the places best suited to survive a global collapse of society,
according to a study.

The researchers said human civilisation was 'in a perilous state' due
to the highly interconnected and energy-intensive society that had
developed and the environmental damage this had caused.

To assess which nations would be most resilient to such a collapse,
countries were ranked according to their ability to grow food for
their population, protect their borders from unwanted mass migration,
and maintain an electrical grid and some manufacturing
ability. Islands in temperate regions and mostly with low population
densities came out on top.

The researchers said their study highlighted the factors that nations
must improve to increase resilience. They said that a globalised
society that prized economic efficiency damaged resilience, and that
spare capacity needed to exist in food and other vital sectors...

'We were quite surprised the UK came out strongly.. But it has the
potential to withstand shocks.'"

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jul/28/new-zealand-rated-best-place-to-survive-global-societal-collapse)

---

NYT: "Fires Continue to Ravage Greece Amid Europe’s Protracted Heat Wave"

---

The Independent: "More Cubans try dangerous trip to US across Florida Straits"

---

"Russia Plans to Substitute Decline In Gas Exports To Europe By Blue
Hydrogen. Production of ‘blue’ carbon-neutral hydrogen already
possible, with cost estimated at around $2 per kilogram"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3AiZbYR)

---

It's crazy, that Oliver Stone *Snowden* movie, is full of A-list
actors. Gordon-Lewitt, Quinto, .. Scott Eastwood? That actress from
the Divergent movies..? I bet they jumped at the chance to be on this.

---

<blockquote width="200" class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Kuwait has the biggest tyre dump in the world. It is now on fire. <a href="https://t.co/RsaqMnyJFC">pic.twitter.com/RsaqMnyJFC</a></p>&mdash; Extinction Rebellion (@ExtinctionR) <a href="https://twitter.com/ExtinctionR/status/1423789470864662532?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 6, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Poland set to back down in EU legal row.. Poland will water down its
controversial justice reform following years of EU pressure, according
to Jaroslaw Kaczynski"

---

Is *Dune* timely? I dont think so. It's desert mysticism, little
*Lawrence of Arabia*, little *Game of Thrones*.. but no. The time for
that has passed. Now it is time for *Foundation*.

---

EIA is Energy Information Agency. IEA is International Energy Agency.
And IAEA is International Atomic Energy Agency. Got it.

---

"People were actually driving miles upon miles to go to work!"
Commuting will be the butt of jokes in the future (if we make it that
far).

---

EIA: "Work comprises about 35 percent of total vehicle travel"

---

I hope noone was hurt, but one has to admit from a certain angle it is
hilarious. The solution that is supposed to help with global warming
just created more greenhouse gas than a forest fire

---

🤣 🤣 🤣 

Business Insider: "A giant Tesla battery pack burst into flames during
testing, and it took 150 firefighters 4 days to put out"

[Link](https://www.businessinsider.com/tesla-megapack-battery-fire-burns-four-days-testing-australia-2021-8)

---

Elizabeth Gaines, the CEO of Fortescue Metals Group on ABC Oz tauting
green H2. Says for companies who ignore it are taking on huge risk

---

A good actor can make a good script phenomenal. That is true. 

---

"If it ain't on the page, it ain't on the stage". Good saying. A great
actor cannot save a bad script, or bad directing. Movies are mostly
about the story, the camera angles, when to cut etc.

Therefore what we see as successful actors are not just good actors,
but know how to pick scripts (and directors). They have an eye for
it. Otherwise they'd be toast.  Appear in wrong movies a few times you
are done bcz great work is not just about acting, but the overall
production.

---

