# Nations and Nationalism - 3

Ernest Gellner

A characteristic scenario of the evolution of a nationalism [..] ran
something like this:

The Ruritanians were a peasant population speaking a group of related
[..] dialects, and inhabiting a series of discontinuous but not very
much separated pockets within the lands of the Empire of
Megalomania. The Ruritanian language, or rather the dialects which
could be held to compose it, was not really spoken by anyone other
than these peasants.  The aristocracy and officialdom spoke the
language of the Megalomanian court, which happened to belong to a
language group different from the one of which the Ruritanian dialects
were an offshoot. Most, but not all, Ruritanian peasants belonged to a
church whose liturgy was taken from another linguistic group again,
and many of the priests, especially higher up in the hierarchy, spoke
a language which was a modem vernacular version of the liturgical
language of this creed, and which was also very far removed from
Ruritanian.  The petty traders of the small towns serving the
Ruritanian countyside were drawn from a different ethnic group and
religion still, and one heartily detested by the Ruritanian peasantry.

In the nineteenth century a population explosion occurred at the same
time as certain other areas of the Empire of Megalomania - but not
Ruritania - rapidly industrialized. The Ruritanian peasants were drawn
to seek work in the industrially more developed areas, and some
secured it, on the dreadful terms prevailing at the time. As backward
rustics speaking an obscure and seldom written or taught language,
they had a particularly rough deal in the towns to whose slums they
had moved. At the same time, some Ruritanian lads destined for the
church, and educated in both the court and the liturgical languages,
became influenced by the new liberal ideas in the course of their
secondary schooling, and shifted to a secular training at the
university, ending not as priests but as journalists, teachers and
professors. They received encouragement from a few foreign,
non-Ruritanian ethnographers, musicologists and historians who had
come to explore Ruritania. The continuing labour migration,
increasingly widespread elementary education and conscription provided
these Ruritanian awakeners with a growing audience.

Of course, it was perfectly possible for the Ruritanians, if they
wished to do so (and many did), to assimilate into the dominant
language of Megalomania. No genetically transmitted trait, no deep
religious custom, differentiated an educated Ruritanian from a similar
Megalomanian. In fact, many did assimilate, often without bothering to
change their names, and the telephone directory of the old capital of
Megalomania (now the Federal Republic of Megalomania) is quite full of
Ruritanian names, though often rather comically spelt in the
Megalomanian manner, and adapted to Megalomanian phonetic
expectations. The point is that after a rather harsh and painful start
in the first generation, the life chances of the offspring of the
Ruritanian labour migrant were not unduly bad, and probably at least
as good (given his willingness to work hard) as those of his
non-Ruritanian Megalomanian fellow citizens. So these offspring shared
in the eventually growing prosperity and general embourgeoisement of
the region. Hence, as far as individual life chances went, there was
perhaps no need for a virulent Ruritanian nationalism.

Nonetheless something of the kind did occur. It would, I think, be
quite wrong to attribute conscious calculation to the participants in
the movement. Subjectively, one must suppose that they had the motives
and feelings which are so vigorously expressed in the literature of
the national revival. They deplored the squalor and neglect of their
home valleys, while yet also seeing the rustic virtues still to be
found in them; they deplored the discrimination to which their
co-nationals were subject, and the alienation from their native
culture to which they were doomed in the proletarian suburbs of the
industrial towns. They preached against these ills, and had the
hearing of at least many of their fellows. The manner in which, when
the international political situation came to favour it, Ruritania
eventually attained independence [..]


There is, one must repeat, no need to assume any conscious long-term
calculation of interest on anyone's part. The nationalist
intellectuals were full of warm and generous ardour on behalf of the
co-nationals. When they doned folk costume and trekked over the
hills, composing poems in the forest clearings, they did not also
dream of one day becoming powerful bureaucrats, ambassadors and
ministers. Likewise, the peasants and workers whom they succeeded in
reaching felt resentment at their condition, but had no reveries about
plans of industrial development which one day would bring a steel mill
(quite useless, as it then turned out) to the very heart of the
Ruritanian valleys, thus totally ruining quite a sizeable area of
surrounding arable land and pasture. It would be genuinely wrong to
try to reduce these sentiments to calculations of material advantage
or of social mobility. The present theory is sometimes travestied as a
reduction of national sentiment to calculation of prospects of social
promotion. But this is a misrepresentation. In the old days it made no
sense to ask whether the peasants loved their own culture: they took
it for granted, like the air they breathed, and were not conscious
of either. But when labour migration and bureaucratic employment
became prominent features within their social horizon, they soon
learned the difference between dealing with a co-national, one
understanding and sympathizing with their culture, and someone
hostile to it. This very concrete experience taught them to be aware
of their culture, and to love it (or, indeed, to wish to be rid of it)
without any conscious calculation of advantages and prospects of
social mobility. In stable self-contained communities culture is often
quite invisible, but when mobility and context-free communication come
to be of the essence of [industrial] social life, the culture in which one has been
taught to communicate becomes the core of one's identity.


So had there been such calculation (which there was not) it would, in
quite a number of cases (though by no means in all), have been a very
sound one. In fact, given the at least relative paucity of Ruritanian
intellectuals, those Ruritanians who did have higher quafications
secured much better posts in independent Ruritania than most of them
could even have hoped for in Greater Megalomania, where they had to
compete with scholastically more developed ethnic groups. As for the
peasants and workers, they did not benefit immediately; but the
drawing of a political boundary around the newly defined ethnic
Ruritania did mean the eventual fostering and protection of industries
in the area, and in the end drastically diminished the need for labour
migration from it.

What all this amounts to is this: during the early period of
industrialization, entrants into the new order who are drawn from
cultural and linguistic groups that are distant from those of the more
advanced centre, suffer considerable disadvantages which are even
greater than those of other economically weak new proletarians who
have the advantage of sharing the culture of the political and
economic rulers. But the cultural / linguistic distance and capacity
to differentiate themselves from others, which is such a handicap for
individuals, can be and often is eventually a positive advantage for
entire collectivities, or potential collectivities, of these victims
of the newly emergent world. It enables them to conceive and express
their resentments and discontents in intelligible terms. Ruritanians
had previously thought and felt in terms of family unit and village,
at most in terms of a valley, and perhaps on occasion in terms of
religion. But now, swept into the melting pot of an early industrial
development, they had no valley and no village: and sometimes no
family. But there were other impoverished and exploited individuals,
and a lot of them spoke dialects recognizably similar, while most of
the better-off spoke something quite alien; and so the new concept of
the Ruritanian nation was born of this contrast, with some
encouragement from those journalists and teachers. And it was not an
illusion: the attainment of some of the objects of the nascent
Ruritanian national movement did indeed bring relief of the ills which
had helped to engender it. The relief would perhaps have come anyway;
but in this national form, it also brought forth a new high culture
and its guardian state.

This is one of the two important principles of fission which determine
the emergence of new units, when the industrial world with its
insulated cultural breathing tanks comes into being. It could be
called the principle of barriers to communication, barriers based on
previous, pre-industrial cultures; and it operates with special force
during the early period of industrialization.

