

---

Data Analysis with Open Source Tools, Philipp K. Janert

"Big Fad?

The rise of Big Data is a remarkable phenomenon. When this book was
conceived (early 2009), Big Data was certainly on the horizon but was
not necessarily considered mainstream yet. As this book goes to print
(late 2010), it seems that for many people in the tech field, “data”
has become nearly synonymous with “Big Data.” That kind of development
usually indicates a fad. The reality is that, in practice, many data
sets are “small,” and in particular many relevant data sets are
small. (Some of the most important data sets in a commercial setting
are those maintained by the finance department—and since they are kept
in Excel, they must be small.)

Big Data is not necessarily “better.” Applied carelessly, it can be a
huge step backward. The amazing insight of classical statistics is
that you don’t need to examine every single member of a population to
make a definitive statement about the whole: instead you can sample!
It is also true that a carefully selected sample may lead to better
results than a large, messy data set. Big Data makes it easy to forget
the basics"

---

How Simple Ideas Lead to Scientific Discoveries

Great talk by Adam Savage of MythBusters fame. Key quote: "Whenever I
am having trouble understanding a concept, I go back and research the
people who discovered that concept. I look at the story of how they
came to understand it". This key technique is usually lacking in
education. We need to trace the thought patterns of the creators of
all discoveries which will teach students to think like them. They
might even see where they might have fallen short and continue a line
of research if need be. Right now we simply drop bunch of cooked up
end results on a student's lap and expect them to "know", and "use"
these results, similar to the way we give people finished industrial
products for consumers to just "use" and consume.

[[-]](https://youtu.be/F8UFGu2M2gM)

---

"If You’re Busy, You’re Doing Something Wrong

In the early 1990s, a trio of psychologists descended on the
Universität der Künste, a historic arts academy in the heart of West
Berlin. They came to study the violinists [..] We can start by
disproving the assumption that the elite players dedicate more hours
to music. The time diaries revealed that both groups spent, on
average, the same number of hours on music per week (around 50).The
difference was in how they spent this time. The elite players were
spending almost three times more hours than the average players on
deliberate practice — the uncomfortable, methodical work of stretching
your ability [..].

They also studied how the students scheduled their work. The average
players, they discovered, spread their work throughout the day. A
graph included in the paper, which shows the average time spent
working versus the waking hours of the day, is essentially flat.

The elite players, by contrast, consolidated their work into two
well-defined periods. When you plot the average time spent working
versus the hours of the day for these players, there are two prominent
peaks: one in the morning and one in the afternoon [..].

Also consider relaxation. The researchers asked the players to
estimate how much time they dedicated each week to leisure activities
— an important indicator of their subjective feeling of relaxation. By
this metric, the elite players were significantly more relaxed than
the average players, and the best of the best were the most relaxed of
all [..].

This analysis leads to an important conclusion [..] If you’re
chronically stressed and up late working, you’re doing something
wrong. You’re the average players from the Universität der Künste —
not the elite. You’ve built a life around hard to do work, not hard
work"

---

An Italian IT worker acquintance tells me that he left Italy for
Germany. He worked in his home country as a freelancer for a while
where he was taxed at 50%. He complains after all that tax burden,
what he also sees government services such as health, justice taking a
nose dive. And the dysfunction in government services is exploited by
others which makes things worse: freelancer and client agree on a
price but after the work is finished, the client does not pay,
trusting that taking the matter to court will take years to
resolve. But the suck does not end there; freelancer is forced to
settle for less, while paying taxes on the previously agreed upon
price. What kind of bullshit is this? Getting the agreed upon price in
freelance work is not unheard of (in fact it happens in US too) but
the tax thing is completely idiotic. Acquintance told me he actually
saw the number zero in his bank account after his freelance
experience.

There is a groving dissatisfaction in Italy, the perception is the
current political class (and they are a class) have imploded, and went
fubar. The system screws the very people it needs, the people who
create value at the same time, making exploiters, the parasites rich.

---

This is a big problem in developing countries. Many schools use
English to teach natural sciences for instance which in the long run
hampers the transmission of the subject matter in depth. Yes, one
advantage of foreign language based teaching is being able to use
English based material immediately in class [1], but this single
advantage is erased by other factors that work to a child's
disadvantage. Plus, the teaching material issue can be fixed easily;
teachers prepare their own lecture material in their own
language. Surely not every teacher might be able to do this, but this
blog's position is already that only top-notch researchers teaching
and their video lectures to be transmitted to millions of children
anyway, so we dont really give a f-k about problems of regular
teachers, or the dysfunctional system that is based on their presence.

---

Most of the other perceived "advantages" of this system are plain
wrong. FLBT complicates the teaching of subjects and fails to teach
the language itself for regular use. A famous Turkish researcher told
a story: he comes to Harvard after studying under FLBT system for many
years, after he lands, he meets his advisor for the first time who
asks him: "How long did your trip take?" to which our guy answers "I
am fine thank you". There are many stories like this. FLBT students
only learn enough of language to get by, nothing more.

---

Also, Dr Rigoberta Menchú, Nobel Peace Laureate and UNESCO Goodwill
Ambassador for Culture of Peace, writes: “Many people know what it is
like to struggle in school. Others know what it is like to be forced
to drop out. For many children, this deep frustration and
disappointment is not caused by physical or monetary barriers, but by
the decision to teach in a language which they do not understand"

"Unesco has stressed the significance of the mother tongue for over 50
years. Save the Children's 2009 report for the CfBT education trust,
Language and Education: The Missing Link, hammers home this message
[..] The research evidence on mother tongue-based multilingual
education is unambiguous. English-medium education in postcolonial
contexts that neglects mother tongues and local cultural values is
clearly inappropriate and ineffective"

---

