# Week 32

---

I recently listened to an episode of This American Life called “When
Patents Attack!”. Something that surprised me while listening was that
while I think of patents as being mostly for gadgets and the kinds of
products you see on infomercials, patents have become a huge factor in
the software and online industries, to the tune of billions of dollars
[..]

Patents are devolving into something the opposite of its original
intent: a tool for tech-industry shakedowns and costly litigation [..]

[A patent has been awarded for] method for concealing partial baldness
(combover) [..]

Many of [the ..] redundant patents are made in an attempt to
capitalize on fundamental systems and behaviours in technology and
online [Examples:]

"Backing Up Data Online". "Providing a User Interface". "Pop-up
Windows on The Web".

---

Since Barack Obama entered the White House, the number of long-term
unemployed Americans has doubled from 2.7 million to 5.4
million. During the same time, the price of a gallon of gasoline has
risen from $1.85 to $3.49.

The U.S. government says that the number of Americans “not in the
labor force” rose by 17.9 million between 2000 and 2011.  During the
entire decade of the 1980s, the number of Americans “not in the labor
force” rose by only 1.7 million.

Eight million Americans have “left the labor force” since the
recession supposedly ended.  If those Americans were added back into
the unemployment figures, the unemployment rate would be somewhere up
around 12 percent.

The average duration of unemployment in the United States is nearly
three times as long as it was back in the year 2000.

The unemployment rate in the U.S. has been above 8 percent for 40
months in a row, and 42 percent of all unemployed Americans have been
out of work for at least half a year.

---
