# Debt, The First 5000 Years

David Graeber

Mitchell-Innes was an exponent of what came to be known as the Credit
Theory of money [..] Credit Theorists insisted that money is not a
commodity but an accounting tool . In other words, it is not a "thing"
at all. You can no more touch a dollar or a deutschmark than you can
touch an hour or a cubic centimeter [..]. The obvious next question
is: If money is a just a yardstick, what then does it measure? The
answer was simple: debt. A coin is, effec­tively, an IOU [short for
I-Owe-You, meaning debt..].

Say, for example, that [an imaginery person] Joshua were to give his
shoes to Henry, and, rather than Henry owing him a fa­vor, Henry
promises him something of equivalent value. Henry gives Joshua an
IOU. Joshua could wait for Henry to have something use­ful, and then
redeem it. In that case Henry would rip up the IOU and the story would
be over. But say Joshua were to pass the IOU on to a third
party-Sheila-to whom he owes something else. He could tick it off
against his debt to a fourth party, Lola-now Henry will owe that
amount to her. Hence is money born [..].

What credit theorists like Mitchell-Innes were arguing is that even if
Henry gave Joshua a gold coin instead of a piece of paper, the
situ­ation would be essentially the same. A gold coin is a promise to
pay something else of equivalent value to a gold coin. After all, a
gold coin is not actually useful in itself. One only accepts it
because one assumes other people will. In this sense, the value of a
unit of currency is not the measure of the value of an object, but the
measure of one's trust in other human beings [..]

But systems like these cannot create a full-blown currency system, and
there's no evidence that they ever have. Providing a sufficient number
of IOUs to allow everyone even in a medium-sized city to be able to
carry out a significant portion of their daily transactions in such
cur­rency would require millions of tokens. To be able to guarantee
all of them, Henry would have to be al most unimaginably rich. All
this would be much less of a problem, however, if Henry were, say,
Henry II, King of England, Duke of Normandy, Lord of Ireland, and
Count of Anjou.

According to Knapp, whether or not the actual, physical money stuff in
circulation corresponds to this "imaginary money" is not par­ticularly
important. It makes no real difference whether it's pure sil­ver,
debased silver, leather tokens, or dried cod-provided the state is
willing to accept it in payment of taxes. Because whatever the state
was willing to accept, for that reason, became currency [..].

Modern banknotes actually work on a similar principle, except in
reverse. Recall here the little parable about Henry's IOU. The reader
might have noticed one puzzling aspect of the equation: the IOU can
operate as money only as long as Henry never pays his debt. In fact
this is precisely the logic on which the Bank of England-the first
successful modern central bank-was originally founded.

In 1694, a consortium of English bankers made a loan of £1,2oo,ooo to
the king. In return they received a royal monopoly on the issuance of
banknotes. What this meant in practice was they had the right to
advance IOUs for a portion of the money the king now owed them to any
inhabitant of the kingdom willing to borrow from them, or willing to
deposit their own money in the bank-in effect, to circulate or
"monetize" the newly created royal debt. This was a great deal for the
bankers (they got to charge the king 8 percent annual interest for the
original loan and simultaneously charge interest on the same money to
the clients who borrowed it), but it only worked as long as the
original loan remained outstanding. To this day, this loan has never
been paid back. It cannot be. If it ever were, the entire monetary
system of Great Britain would cease to exist.

[On taxes]

Why did they make subjects pay taxes at all? This is not a question
we're used to asking [..].

Say a king wishes to support a stand­ing army of fifty thousand
men. Under ancient or medieval conditions, feeding such a force was an
enormous problem-unless they were on the march, one would need to
employ almost as many men and ani­mals just to locate, acquire, and
transport the necessary provisions . On the other hand, if one simply
hands out coins to the soldiers and then demands that every family in
the kingdom was obliged to pay one of those coins back to you, one
would, in one blow, turn one's entire national economy into a vast
machine for the provisioning of soldiers, since now every family, in
order to get their hands on the coins, must find some way to
contribute to the general effort to provide soldiers with things they
want. Markets are brought into existence as a side effect.

The Islamic Wall

Medieval Islam [..] enthusiastically embraced law, which was seen as a
religious institution derived from the Prophet, but tended to view
government, more often than not, as an unfortunate necessity, an
institution that the truly pious would do better to avoid.

In part this was because of the peculiar nature of Islamic
govern­ment. The Arab military leaders who, after Mohammed's death in
632 AD, conquered the Sassanian empire and established the Abbasid
Caliphate, always continued to see themselves as people of the desert,
and never felt entirely part of the urban civilizations they had come
to rule. This discomfort was never quite overcome - on either side. It
took the bulk of the population several centuries to convert to the
conqueror's religion, and even when they did, they never seem to have
really identified with their rulers. Government was seen as military
power -- necessary, perhaps, defend the faith, but fundamentally
exte­rior to society.

In part, too, it was because of the peculiar alliance between
mer­chants and common folk that came to be aligned against them. After
Caliph al-Ma'mum's abortive attempt to set up a theocracy in 832 AD,
the government took a hands-off position on questions of religion. The
various schools of Islamic law were free to create their own
educational institutions and maintain their own separate system of
religious justice. Crucially, it was the ulema, the legal scholars,
who were the principal agents in the conversion of the bulk of the
empire's population to Islam in Mesopotamia, Syria, Egypt, and North
Africa in those same years. But like the elders in charge of guilds,
civic associations, commercial sodalities, and religious brotherhoods
they did their best to keep the government, with its armies and
ostentation, at arm's length.

"The best princes are those who visit religious teachers," one proverb
put it, "the worst religious teachers are the those who allow
themselves to be visited by princes."

This disjuncture had profound economic effects . It meant that the
Caliphate, and later Muslim empires, could operate in many ways much
like [old ones ..] We can, perhaps, speak of a kind of "military­
coinage-slavery" complex here-but it existed in a kind of bubble.

Wars of expansion, and trade with Europe and Africa, did produce a
fairly constant flow of slaves, but in dramatic contrast to the
ancient world, very few of them ended up laboring in farms or
workshops. Most ended up as decoration in the houses of the rich, or,
increasingly over time, as soldiers. Over the course of the Abbasid
dynasty (750-1258 AD) in fact, the empire came to rely, for its
military forces , almost exclusively on Mamluks, highly trained
military slaves captured or purchased from the Turkish steppes.

The policy of employing slaves as soldiers was [..] unprecedented. In
most times and places slaves are, for obvious reasons, the very last
people to be allowed anywhere near weapons. Here it was
systematic. But in a strange way, it also made perfect sense: if
slaves are, by definition, people who have been severed from society,
this was the logical consequence of the wall created between society
and the Medieval Islamic state.

Religious teachers appear to have done everything they could to prop
up the wall. One reason for the recourse to slave soldiers was their
tendency to discourage the faithful from serving in the military
(since it might mean fighting fellow believers) . The legal system
that they created also ensured that it was effectively impossible for
Muslims - or for that matter Christian or Jewish subjects of the
Caliphate - to be reduced to slavery. Here al-Wahid seems to have been
largely correct. Islamic law took aim at just about all the most
notorious abuses of earlier, Axial Age societies. Slavery through
kidnapping, judicial punishment, debt, and the exposure or sale of
children, even through the voluntary sale of one's own person-all were
forbidden, or rendered unenforceable.

In a way, one can see the establishment of Islamic courts as the
ultimate triumph of the patriarchal rebellion that had begun so many
thousands of years before: of the ethos of the desert or the steppe,
real or imagined , even as the faithful did their best to keep the
heavily armed descendants of actual nomads confined to their camps and
pal­aces . It was made possible by a profound shift in class
alliances. The great urban civilizations of the Middle East had always
been dominat­ed by a de facto alliance between administrators and
merchants, both of whom kept the rest of the population either in debt
peonage or in constant peril of falling into it. In converting to
Islam, the commercial classes, so long the arch-villains in the eyes
of ordinary farmers and townsfolk, effectively agreed to change sides,
abandon all their most hated practices, and become instead the leaders
of a society that now defined itself against the state.











