# The Islamic Wall

From Debt, The First 5000 Years, David Graeber 

Medieval Islam [..] enthusiastically embraced law, which was seen as a
religious institution derived from the Prophet, but tended to view
government, more often than not, as an unfortunate necessity, an
institution that the truly pious would do better to avoid.

In part this was because of the peculiar nature of Islamic
govern­ment. The Arab military leaders who, after Mohammed's death in
632 AD, conquered the Sassanian empire and established the Abbasid
Caliphate, always continued to see themselves as people of the desert,
and never felt entirely part of the urban civilizations they had come
to rule. This discomfort was never quite overcome - on either side. It
took the bulk of the population several centuries to convert to the
conqueror's religion, and even when they did, they never seem to have
really identified with their rulers. Government was seen as military
power -- necessary, perhaps, defend the faith, but fundamentally
exte­rior to society.

In part, too, it was because of the peculiar alliance between
mer­chants and common folk that came to be aligned against them. After
Caliph al-Ma'mum's abortive attempt to set up a theocracy in 832 AD,
the government took a hands-off position on questions of religion. The
various schools of Islamic law were free to create their own
educational institutions and maintain their own separate system of
religious justice. Crucially, it was the ulema, the legal scholars,
who were the principal agents in the conversion of the bulk of the
empire's population to Islam in Mesopotamia, Syria, Egypt, and North
Africa in those same years. But like the elders in charge of guilds,
civic associations, commercial sodalities, and religious brotherhoods
they did their best to keep the government, with its armies and
ostentation, at arm's length.

"The best princes are those who visit religious teachers," one proverb
put it, "the worst religious teachers are the those who allow
themselves to be visited by princes."

This disjuncture had profound economic effects . It meant that the
Caliphate, and later Muslim empires, could operate in many ways much
like [old ones ..] We can, perhaps, speak of a kind of "military­
coinage-slavery" complex here-but it existed in a kind of bubble.

Wars of expansion, and trade with Europe and Africa, did produce a
fairly constant flow of slaves, but in dramatic contrast to the
ancient world, very few of them ended up laboring in farms or
workshops. Most ended up as decoration in the houses of the rich, or,
increasingly over time, as soldiers. Over the course of the Abbasid
dynasty (750-1258 AD) in fact, the empire came to rely, for its
military forces , almost exclusively on Mamluks, highly trained
military slaves captured or purchased from the Turkish steppes.

The policy of employing slaves as soldiers was [..] unprecedented. In
most times and places slaves are, for obvious reasons, the very last
people to be allowed anywhere near weapons. Here it was
systematic. But in a strange way, it also made perfect sense: if
slaves are, by definition, people who have been severed from society,
this was the logical consequence of the wall created between society
and the Medieval Islamic state.

Religious teachers appear to have done everything they could to prop
up the wall. One reason for the recourse to slave soldiers was their
tendency to discourage the faithful from serving in the military
(since it might mean fighting fellow believers) . The legal system
that they created also ensured that it was effectively impossible for
Muslims - or for that matter Christian or Jewish subjects of the
Caliphate - to be reduced to slavery. Here al-Wahid seems to have been
largely correct. Islamic law took aim at just about all the most
notorious abuses of earlier, Axial Age societies. Slavery through
kidnapping, judicial punishment, debt, and the exposure or sale of
children, even through the voluntary sale of one's own person-all were
forbidden, or rendered unenforceable.

In a way, one can see the establishment of Islamic courts as the
ultimate triumph of the patriarchal rebellion that had begun so many
thousands of years before: of the ethos of the desert or the steppe,
real or imagined , even as the faithful did their best to keep the
heavily armed descendants of actual nomads confined to their camps and
pal­aces . It was made possible by a profound shift in class
alliances. The great urban civilizations of the Middle East had always
been dominat­ed by a de facto alliance between administrators and
merchants, both of whom kept the rest of the population either in debt
peonage or in constant peril of falling into it. In converting to
Islam, the commercial classes, so long the arch-villains in the eyes
of ordinary farmers and townsfolk, effectively agreed to change sides,
abandon all their most hated practices, and become instead the leaders
of a society that now defined itself against the state.











