# The Logistic Equation

For population growth calculations, Malthusian method was the first to
arrive at the scene. This method / model measures an unlimited growth
that is only decreased by the natural death rate of the
population. However Malthusian method fails to predict the population
size correctly after a certain time period.

The logistic equation was an improvement to Malthusian model that
gives much accurate results. It does this by calculating another death
rate, not proportional to the population, but this time proportional
to the "interaction density" of that population.

If population at time $t$ is $p(t)$, we have $dp/dt = ap - bp^2$ where
a and b are constants (they are calculated from historical data).

The interaction density between p people is roughly calculated as
$p(p-1) / 2$, for example between 4 people there are 6 possible
peer-to-peer interactions, and simply $p^2$ can be used and placed in
the equation as $bp^2$ (bcz there is already a p in there, and the rest
is handled by constants). Interaction density is supposed to represent
death due to contention for shared resources, spread of disease that
place denser populace at a disadvantage.

According to my calculations, with natural growth world population in
60 years is supposed to be at around 12 billion. But according to
logistic growth prediction, the real number will not get there. It
will remain at around 10 billion - and I am sorry to say this - the
difference of around 2 billion people are going to die.

This death will occur because of a race toward shared resources,
widespread epidemic, or war.

If however contention for shared resources issue is resolved, such as
the invention of new energy sources, known and future deadly diseases
are cured speedily, disagreement within, between people are resolved
piecefully then the story can change.
