# Capitalism Eating Itself

Wolfgang Streeck, *How Will Capitalism End*

At first glance, there is indeed much that speaks against pronouncing
capitalism dead, regardless of all the ominous writing on the
historical wall. As far as inequality is concerned, people may get
used to it, especially with the help of public entertainment and
political repression. Furthermore, examples abound of governments
being re-elected that cut social spending and privatize public
services [..]. Concerning environmental deterioration, it proceeds
only slowly compared to the human lifespan, so one can deny it while
learning to live with it. Technological advances with which to buy
time, such as fracking, can never be ruled out, and, if there are
limits to the pacifying powers of consumerism, we clearly are nowhere
near them. Moreover, adapting to more time-consuming and
life-consuming, work regimes can be taken as a competitive-challenge,
an opportunity for personal achievement. Cultural definitions of the
good life have always been highly malleable and might well be
stretched further to match the onward march of commodification at
least as long as radical or religious challenges to pro-capitalist
re-education can be suppressed, ridiculed or otherwise marginalized.
Finally, most of today's stagnation theories apply only to the West,
or just to the U.S., not to China, Russia,.India or Brazil - countries
to which the frontier of economic growth may be about to migrate, with
vast virgin,lands waiting to be made available for capitalist
progress.

My answer is that having no opposition may actually be more of a
liability for capitalism than an asset. Social systems thrive on
internal heterogeneity, on a pluralism of organizing principles
protecting them from dedicating themselves entirely to a single
purpose, crowding out other goals that must also be attended to if the
system is to be sustainable. Capitalism as we know it has benefited
greatly from the rise of counter-movements against the rule of profit
and of the market. Socialism and trade unionism, by putting a brake on
commodification; prevented capitalism from destroying its
non-capitalist foundations - trust, good faith, altruism, solidarity
within families and communities, and [..] where circumstances were
favourable, working-class organization even served as a 'productivity
whip' by forcing capital to embark on more advanced production
concepts.

It is in this sense that Geoffrey Hodgson has argued that capitalism
can survive only as long as it is not completely capitalist - as it
has not yet rid itself, or the society in which it resides, of
'necessary impurities': Seen this way, capitalism's defeat of its
opposition may actually have been a Pyrrhic victory, freeing it from
countervailing powers which, while sometimes inconvenient, had in fact
supported it.

----

Yes we need balance. Capitalism is not a
[religion](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=mSuQ-AyiicA&t=4m18s), it's a
tool.

Simplest example: family takes care of education, basic health of its
members. Your mother teaches you how to walk, to talk, how to take a
shit. Huge amount amount of unpaid "social" work in other words, that
supplies a worker to the economy. If capitalism harms this process by
creating too much stress in society, it harms the very process that
gives it workers. Destroy healthcare, you have no healthy buyers. Etc.
