# More on Brexit

In explaining the course of history, scholars like to look not only at
immediate causes of an event, but the underlying trends that made it
possible, if not inevitable. The assassination of Austrian Archduke
Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914 may have sparked World War I, but the
conflagration was the expression of longstanding geopolitical
rivalries [..].

On their own, the EU’s failures need not have necessitated a vote to
Leave. Despite these developments, there were strong arguments for
staying in the EU. One could, on balance, decide that the good
outweighed the bad, that the EU could be reformed, that the economic
benefits of staying were not worth the political advantages of leaving
[..]. 

But that would require knowledge of the positive case for staying. And
over many years, the British public were treated to nothing but the
negative: story after story — many exaggerated, some invented, others
all too true — of the EU’s failings. Nobody in power spoke of the
positive things Europe provided. There was no counter narrative, and
there hadn’t been since the 1975 referendum to join the EU [..].

[T]he government never laid the ground for a pro-EU referendum,
despite numerous examples of Britain’s ability to sway European
policy. We put forward proposals that blazed the trail for a digital
single market and the Energy Union that eventually became the EU’s
response to Russia’s invasion of Crimea. And we rescued the
Commission’s efforts to end mobile telephone roaming charges and
pushed hard on improving airline safety. A Business Task Force with
six prominent British businesspeople looked at all the EU regulations
that should be scrapped — and managed to get two-thirds of their
recommendations implemented within a year. 

But Cameron never turned these victories into high politics. He
preferred highlighting achievements he knew would play well in the
House of Commons — vetoing changes to the Lisbon Treaty, capping the
EU’s budget, ensuring that the U.K. would not be liable for eurozone
bailouts. These invariably portrayed him as defending the U.K. from
the EU’s encroachments. We did not weave similar stories to show how
EU membership helped the U.K.

