# Construction

Bruce B. de Mesquita, TLPS

The ease with which graft can be hidden in construction projects makes
this industrial activity unusually attractive as a way for leaders to
indulge in cronyism and nepotism. Every society requires construction,
of course, and not all of it involves the misappropriation of
funds. But there is sufficient anecdotal evidence to suggest that
construction involves an unusual degree of corrupt practices.

We test the relationship between our indicator Construction and the
effects of W and W/S using our standard models. The selectorate model
performs well when it comes to assessing Construction, though the
substantive impact is more modest than for corruption. W by itself is
significantly associated with a dampening of construction projects and
remains significant after we control for other factors. WS:Income, in
contrast, turns out to contribute significantly to increasing
construction.

--

Right. I was able to replicate this finding as well; see the updated
notebook attached to this post. Once the general richness of society
is accounted for, there is a negative correlation between construction
and the winning coalition size, W, meaning better governance means
less construction that involve theft. Rich societies naturally build
more, or they build in proportion to their income, and if they are
governed well no more than necessary. The "more" of this extra
construction can involve shady dealings and that part is caught by the
regression.

We also control for what it is traditionally known as democracy
mirroring BBM and his book. In a separate regression we take out
effects of W,S from inside this traditional "democracy" variable, so
what remains (the residuals) are taken to be all other parts
(benefits?) of democracy that is not related to W or S. This residual
has no effect on the regression, meaning traditional concept of
democracy is irrelevant.

This finding is interesting at so many levels.. As we all know, TR is
not a "large W" environment - after the latest election, neither the
60% of the votes cast for the opponents of AK, or AK itself in
conjunction with either of the 3 parties were able to form a
coalition. At the same time there have been allegations around AK over
inappropriate dealings related to the construction
sector. Coincidence?









