# The Logic of Political Survival

Bruce B. de Mequita

Direct and indirect military intervention [in a foreign country]
provide mechanisms through which institutions can be
improved. Unfortunately, the political incentives of leaders from
large-coalition interventionist systems do not promote the
establishment of large-coalition systems abroad. Unless the foreign
policy goals of the foreign state coincide with those of the
nation-building state—as was the case in the two great exceptions,
opposition to communism for Japan and West Germany—military
intervention will not fulfill its potential for institutional reform.

Events in Afghanistan reinforce this point. The United States
intervened militarily in Afghanistan in 2002 to support the rebels of
the North Alliance in removing the Taliban regime because of the
Taliban’s support for international terrorism. Although the United
States relied heavily on the troops of the North Alliance to defeat
the Taliban, the United States still took a dominant role in shaping
Afghanistan’s new government. The United States chose to support an
interim government led by Hamid Karzai. These arrangements paid lip
service to greater inclusiveness, because the government requires the
support of tribal leaders and offers the prospect of future
elections. Yet, rather than having the leader rely directly on the
independent support of members of a mass electorate, the reliance on
tribal leaders created a hierarchical aggregation of support. The
chosen institutions required the leader to retain the support of a
small number of people from the small pool of tribal leaders. Even if
elections are held, they are likely to be dominated by bloc
voting.While such a small-W, small-S system does not encourage the
promotion of public welfare, it does require the leader to spend
considerable resources to reward supporters. The low loyalty norm
created by small-S, small-W systems makes leaders most ready to trade
policy for aid, and hence most likely to do the bidding of the United
States...

Construction

The ease with which graft can be hidden in construction projects makes
this industrial activity unusually attractive as a way for leaders to
indulge in cronyism and nepotism. Every society requires construction,
of course, and not all of it involves the misappropriation of
funds. But there is sufficient anecdotal evidence to suggest that
construction involves an unusual degree of corrupt practices.

We test the relationship between our indicator Construction and the
effects of W and W/S using our standard models. The selectorate model
performs well when it comes to assessing Construction, though the
substantive impact is more modest than for corruption. W by itself is
significantly associated with a dampening of construction projects and
remains significant after we control for other factors. WS:Income, in
contrast, turns out to contribute significantly to increasing
construction.

References

[The Logic of Political Survival Code](the-logic-of-political-survival-mesquita-code.md)

