# The Higgs Fake

Unzicker

The 2013 Nobel Prize in physics was awarded very soon after the
announcement of the discovery of a new particle at a press conference
at CERN on July 4, 2012. The breaking news caused excitement
worldwide. Yet the message conveyed to the public, as if something had
happened like finding a gemstone among pebbles, is, if we take a sober
look at the facts, at best an abuse of language, at worst, a lie.
What had been found by the researchers did not resolve a single one of
the fundamental problems of physics, yet it was immediately declared
the discovery of the century. Whether this claim is fraudulent,
charlatanry, or just thoroughly foolish, we may leave aside; that the
greatest physicists such as Einstein, Dirac or Schrödinger would have
considered the “discovery” of the Higgs particle ridiculous, is
sure. They would never have believed such a complicated model with
dozens of unexplained parameters to reflect anything fundamental.
Though on July 4, 2012, the absurdity of high energy physics reached
its culmination, its folly had begun much earlier...

A few authors, such as Andrew Pickering and David Lindley, have
lucidly pointed out the shortcomings, failures and contradictions in
particle physics in much detail, providing, between the lines, a
devastating picture...

In the last decades, a cascade of increasingly rare effects that
needed colliders with ever more power were forcibly interpreted as new
particles: the bottom quark, W and Z bosons, the top quark, the Higgs
boson. The sieve is getting finer and finer, and it is ever more
likely that artifacts of the analysis come into play that do not
genuinely exist in Nature. In our metaphor, the finer and finer
grains, rather than existing beforehand, would be produced by abrasion
during the process of sieving, when the nuggets have long gone...

The identification of the allegedly new particles has become a task so
complex that it is methodologically hilarious. It’s not that you have
to find a needle in a haystack, the needle is in a needle stack, as
CERN director Rolf-Dieter Heuer phrased it, apparently being proud of
having developed a metaphor for absurdity. Joe Incandela (speaker of
the CMS experiment), when talking about the Higgs discovery, referred
more technically to a photon background of $10^{12}$ , and said it was
like identifying a grain of sand in a swimming pool full of sand.  No
streak of doubt in the data analysts' abilities seemed to have
bothered him either. Physicists see Mississippi water level rise
because a boy peed in it. Believe that headline? If it comes from a
scientific press conference, yes, we do.

But let us address more seriously this ludicrousness. Consider the
half-life of W bosons or top quarks (both of which enter the Higgs
analysis) of some $10^{-25}$ seconds. It means that the poor particle,
during its lifetime, cannot travel more than the radius of a
proton. It will never get out of the mess of the collision point where
600 million protons crash into each other every second, never get into
any detector (!), never cause any physical process that can be clearly
identified unless you pile dozens of theoretical assumptions on top of
each other. But high energy physicists claim to know precisely what's
going on...


When physicists try to separate 100 billion pairs of photons of
“background” from the one pair which originated from the decay of a
Higgs boson, it is rather contrived to speak of an “observation.”...
“Event generators”, as particle physicists call them, are used where
the usual theoretical calculations (which are already superficial
descriptions) don’t work anymore. They constrain themselves to
simulate the collision (with some poorly justified simplifying
assumptions), at a still inferior level of understanding.