# Science Is Not about Getting More "Likes"

Loeb, [Scientific American](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/science-is-not-about-getting-more-likes/)

Social media measures the success of an idea by how many “likes” it
gets. Scientific success is measured by how close the idea is to the
truth. [..] Surprisingly, this naive expectation is not manifested
throughout the current landscape of theoretical physics.

The mathematical constructions of supersymmetry, string theory,
Hawking radiation, anti-de Sitter/conformal field theory (AdS/CFT) and
the multiverse are currently considered irrefutable and self-evident
by the mainstream of theoretical physics, even without experimental
evidence to support them. In the words of a prominent physicist at a
conference that I attended a few months ago: “These ideas must be true
even without experimental testimony in their favor, because thousands
of physicists believe in them and it is difficult to imagine that such
a large community of mathematically-gifted scientists would be wrong.”

Once a mainstream culture grows to this self-sustaining phase, it does
not need external verification. The ideas it advocates are reasoned to
be inherently correct based on their mathematical beauty, with
experiments serving the optional role of narrowing down the wide range
of possibilities allowed by the flexible mathematical framework. Past
generations of theoretical physicists were less arrogant; among the
possibilities they contemplated was one that allowed their theories to
be proven wrong by experimental data.

But the current self-sustained culture thrives in its own theoretical
sauce, dismissing alternatives because they are getting fewer “likes.”
When award or grant-allocation committees are populated by advocates
of the popular paradigm, it could take centuries to correct a path
that should not have been taken in the first place. Large enough
groups can legitimize speculative concepts without adhering to Carl
Sagan’s statement “Extraordinary claims require extraordinary
evidence.”

To his I would add the basic lesson from Galileo Galilei that
experimentation is crucial because extraordinary groupthink leads to
extraordinary ignorance. Before Galileo’s observations, it was popular
to construct beautiful abstract frameworks on the assumptions that
heavy objects fall faster than light objects under gravity and that
the sun revolves around the Earth.

Is there anything new and alarming about the self-sustaining culture
of some current physicists or was it always around, even after
Galileo? My personal impression is that half a century ago,
theoretical physicists were far more disposed to the concept of
experimental vindication. But right now, if we double down on
supersymmetry as being just around the corner when the Large Hadron
Collider did not find evidence for it; if we insist that Hawking
radiation must exist despite the paradox that is spells between
Einstein’s general relativity and the fundamental principle of no
information loss in quantum mechanics; if we posit that the multiverse
must exist, and anything that can happen will happen in it an infinite
number of times—without evidence to support this notion—then we are
betraying the trademark of physics as an effort to describe the
reality we live in.




