# The Most Powerful Greenhouse Gas Known to Man

[BBC](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/amp/science-environment-49567197)

This one is worse than methane. Methane is known to be 30 times more
potent as a greenhouse gas then CO2. But sulphur hexafluoride, or SF6,
beats it out of the park, it is 23,500 times more warming than CO2.

It is colourless, odourless, synthetic gas. It makes a hugely
effective insulating material for medium and high-voltage electrical
installations. It is widely used in the electrical industry to prevent
short circuits and accidents.

Compared to the past, there are more connections to the electricity
grid, and a rise in the number of electrical switches and circuit
breakers that are needed to prevent serious accidents. Collectively,
these safety devices are called switchgear. The vast majority use SF6
gas to quench arcs and stop short circuits.

"As renewable projects are getting bigger and bigger, we have had to
use it within wind turbines specifically ... " says engineer in the
post above.

[EPA](https://www.epa.gov/eps-partnership/sulfur-hexafluoride-sf6-basics)

Since the 1950â€™s, the U.S. electric power industry has used SF6 in
circuit breakers, gas-insulated substations and other switchgear used
in the transmission system to manage the high voltages carried between
generating stations and customer load centers. Disconnectors and
ground switches use SF6 primarily for insulation, and individually,
they contain only slightly less SF6 than a circuit breaker. These
devices are used to isolate portions of the transmission system where
current flow has been interrupted (using a circuit
breaker). Gas-insulated substations also use a significant amount of
SF6, and GIS installations house SF6-insulated circuit breakers,
busbars and monitoring equipment. The largest use of SF6 occurs in
high-voltage circuit breakers, where, in addition to providing
insulation, SF6 is used to quench the arc formed when an energized
circuit breaker is opened.