# The Great Delusion: Liberal Dreams and International Realities

Mearsheimer

The liberal story begins with atomized individuals in the state of
nature, where they are said to have a common set of traits. In this
“state of perfect freedom” they are all endowed with a set of
inalienable rights and they are all equals. John Locke, one of
liberalism’s founders, describes the state of nature as “a state also
of equality, wherein all the power and jurisdiction is reciprocal, no
one having more than another; there being nothing more evident than
that creatures of the same species and rank, promiscuously born to all
the same advantages of nature and the use of the same faculties,
should also be equal one amongst another without subordination or
subjection.”

This emphasis on individualism represented a radical break with the
writings of premodern political philosophers such as Aristotle,
Aquinas, Augustine, Machiavelli, and Plato, all of whom assumed that
humans are naturally political or social beings. As Alexis de
Tocqueville put it, 'Our ancestors had no word for individualism, a
word we have coined for our own use because, in their time, there was
no individual who did not belong to a group or who could consider
himself to be entirely alone.' Nor did these 'ancestors' think that
all individuals should be seen as equals. They thought that some men
are born with superior talents and thus deserve to rule the less
capable.

Political liberalism’s second foundational assumption concerns our
ability to reason. There is no question humans possess impressive
critical faculties. But as we have seen, their ability to reason has
only limited use for determining what constitutes the good
life... When individuals differ over first principles, they sometimes
end up hating and trying to harm each other...

Political liberals have a three-pronged strategy for dealing with the
possibility of deadly conflict. First, they emphasize that everyone’s
set of inalienable rights includes the right to life, which means not
only the right to survive but also the freedom to live the good life
as one sees fit. People have the right to choose whatever lifestyle
they want, as long as it does not infringe on the rights of
others. This specifically includes 'freedom of conscience,' the right
to live according to one’s religious beliefs. Rights are designed to
maximize the amount of freedom individuals have in their daily
lives. The most famous sentence in America’s Declaration of
Independence succinctly captures this first prong of political
liberalism: 'We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit
of Happiness.'..

[But some] people feel so passionately about particular aspects of the
good life that they cannot abide disagreement.  They find it
impossible to believe that other worldviews can be held in good
faith—the people who hold those views, they imagine, must be
deliberately turning away from the truth and are perhaps evil. This
intolerant mind-set makes them a threat not just to their antagonists
but to liberal society itself.  The fact that not everyone will be
committed to value pluralism brings us to the third prong in the
liberal strategy: a strong state that sits above society and maintains
order. The state is well suited for this task because, as Max Weber
famously said, it holds a 'monopoly of the legitimate use of physical
force within a given territory.'

The state, to maintain order, assumes three principal roles. Most
importantly, it acts as a night watchman that protects individual
rights and prevents mortal combat between people or factions with
conflicting views.  Liberalism, to borrow Thomas Carlyle’s phrase, is
'anarchy plus a constable.' The state also writes the rules that
define acceptable and unacceptable conduct while going to great
lengths not to trample on individual rights. These rules allow
individuals or groups to interact in civil ways as each pursues its
own version of the good life. Finally, the state acts as an arbiter
when serious disputes arise, to ensure that conflicts do not lead to
violence. 10 The state, in other words, functions as rule maker,
umpire, and night watchman.

The liberal state obviously performs more functions than those aimed
at keeping domestic order. Progressive liberals want the state to
promote equal opportunity for its citizens and engage in other forms
of social engineering as well. Modus vivendi liberals would surely
object, but even they mostly agree that the state has to manage its
economy and conduct foreign policy.  A host of other matters, such as
education, social security, housing, and labor relations, also require
the attention of even a laissez-faire government, if it hopes to avoid
economic depression, chaos, and unrest. In short, modern liberalism
cannot work without a strong state.

Still, political liberals of all persuasions have mixed views about
the state’s role. Although they know the state is essential for
preserving orderand allowing civil society to flourish, they also
recognize its powerful potential to trample on individual rights...
Nevertheless, as the quintessential liberal Thomas Paine wrote,
government is in the final analysis a 'necessary evil.'

Liberals thus look for ways to limit the state’s power. For example,
liberal states can set up a political order built around checks and
balances; or they can adopt federalism, where the central government
delegates substantial power to regional authorities. Because liberal
countries are invariably democracies, there is always the risk that
the majority will tyrannize the minority. One way to minimize this
danger is to write a clearly articulated bill of rights into the
constitution...

To understand how thoroughly progressivism has triumphed, consider how
liberalism relates to the major political parties in the United States
today. The Democratic Party’s ruling ideology is clearly progressive
liberalism, and it acts accordingly when it controls the key levers of
power in Washington. If you listen to Republicans, you might think
they follow the dictates of modus vivendi liberalism. That is usually
true of their rhetoric, but it is not how they govern. In office,
Republicans act like Democrats. For example, the annualized growth of
federal spending since 1982 grew more under Republican presidents
(Reagan, Bush 41, and Bush 43) than Democrats (Clinton and Obama). It
grew by 8.7 percent under Reagan between 1982 and 1985, but only 1.4
percent under Obama between 2010 and 2013.

Reagan also signed into law in 1986 the Emergency Medical Treatment
and Active Labor Act, which prohibits hospitals from turning away
people who come to an emergency room for treatment. It does not matter
whether those individuals are American citizens, what their legal
status is, or whether they can afford the treatment. In effect, this
law says that health care is a human right. In fact, Reagan said as
early as 1961 that “any person in the United States who requires
medical attention and cannot provide itfor himself should have it
provided for him.” 62 Further evidence that Republicans recognize this
right comes from the often-repeated slogan “repeal and replace.” They
understand they cannot simply eliminate the Affordable Care Act but
must substitute another system that aims to provide Americans with
decent health care. Republican presidents oversaw the beginnings of
the Interstate Highway System, the Environmental Protection Agency,
and the Department of Homeland Security. Republicans, in short, are
deeply committed to the interventionist state and the extensive social
engineering that comes with it...

Three major forces drove progressive liberalism’s ascendancy. The
first was the Industrial Revolution, which started in England in the
eighteenth century and continues even today to generate enormous
economic and social change. Among other things, it led to the rise of
large-scale enterprises—manufacturing companies, financial firms,
trade associations, research universities, and labor unions, to name a
few—that profoundly affected the lives of millions of people.

[The previous paragraphs focused on] describing and analyzing
political liberalism as it applies to politics at home. [But] what
happens when a powerful state adopts a liberal foreign policy? In
other words, what happens when a country that is deeply committed to
individual rights and doing social engineering to promote those rights
employs that template in the wider world?

That formidable state will end up embracing liberal hegemony, a highly
interventionist foreign policy that involves fighting wars and doing
significant social engineering in countries throughout the world. Its main
aim will be to spread liberal democracy, toppling authoritarian regimes in
the process, with the ultimate goal of creating a world populated solely by
liberal democracies. In effect, a state pursuing liberal hegemony aims to
remake the international system in its own image. It will also work to foster
an open world economy and build international institutions to deal with
both economic and security issues...

Liberalism has to have a night watchman if it is to work: it demands a
hierarchic political system such as exists inside the state
itself. But the international system is anarchic, not hierarchic. As
long as liberal states operate in either bipolarity or multipolarity,
they have no choice but to act toward each other according to realist
logic.
