# Predicting Politics

Bruce Mesquita

The model itself depicts a game in which actors simultaneously make
proposals and exert influence on one another. They then evaluate
options and build coalitions by shifting positions on the issue in
question. The above steps are repeated sequentially until the issue is
resolved or the players break off discussions, having concluded that
agreement is not possible. Resolution or breakdown occurs when the
costs of continued negotiation are estimated to exceed the expected
benefits from such continued discussions. The model assumes that each
player has the same time discount rate. When the shift in the median
voter position (or position based on some other pertinent deci- sion
rule) predicted from one round to the next is small enough, given the
time discount rate, then the model assumes bargaining ends. The
outcome predicted at this point depends upon the decision rule in
force. If majority rule (or some super-majority rule) is in force,
then the policy outcome that corresponds with the rule (e.g., the
median voter's policy position at the end of bargaining if majority
rule is in force) is the predicted outcome. If there is a veto player
and that veto player does not agree with the identified outcome, then
agreement is not reached and the result is that the issue remains
unre- solved. 15 If there is more than one veto player, then, of
course, for there to be a predicted agreement, the veto players must
have converged to about the same position.

In the game, each player knows three factors: the potential power and
stated or inferred policy position of each actor on each issue
examined, and the salience each actor associates with those
issues. The decision makers, stakeholders, or players do not know how
much others value alternative out- comes or what perceptions others
have about their risks and opportunities.  Each decision maker chooses
based on his or her perceptions and expecta- tions, with these
perceptions and expectations about the play of others and the general
situation sometimes being in error.

Strategies in the game consist of sequences of policy proposals
(including no proposal) from each player to each other player.. In the
model discussed here, .. players are interested in maximizing their
welfare on [policy].

Decision makers care about the policy choice on the issue continuum
and so, from that perspective, are reluctant to move from the position
with which they have associated themselves to a position on the
opposite side of the median voter. However, they also are interested
in enhancing their per- sonal welfare by being seen as instrumental in
helping to form a winning coalition. Naturally, the location of the
winning coalition may not be con- strained to fall on the same side of
the issue continuum (relative to the median voter's position) as their
own stated negotiating stance. If a player values credit for helping
to forge a winning coalition sufficiently, then the player will be
prepared to shift positions, even moving to the opposite side of the
policy space provided doing so supplies sufficient utility regarding
credit for helping to "make a deal." Such a player can be attracted to
a new position without being coerced. Such a player may strike a
policy compro- mise with others in order to gain credit as the broker
of an agreement.

The issue examined in Table 3.1 [inputs are for political reform in
China, assuming the death of Deng Xiao Ping, the stances of each actor
on what to do next] greater centralization (position 0 on the scale)
or greater democratization (full democracy at position 100 on the
issue scale) in China..  The data were collected in October 1991.. I
display just five bargaining rounds here, but discuss twenty-five such
rounds for these data [later]. The first five rounds appear to paint
an optimistic picture of Chinese liberalization, a picture that is
diminished when we look farther out in time..

[Code](predicting-politics-mesquita-code.md)

