# Principles of International Politics

[US]..  emerged as the most powerful nation in the world [after
WWI]. Wilson’s Fourteen Points called for a major transformation in
international politics. In an effort to prevent a future Great War,
the victors built on Wilson’s ideas to create the League of Nations to
maintain peace through collective security. The United States,
however, seeking to return to a policy of isolation, did not join the
League, which ensured that this international body lacked the teeth
necessary to play a major peacekeeping role.

One of the tenets [of the] Fourteen Points was that people should be
free to choose their own government, thereby helping seal the terminal
fate of monarchy and advancing Wilson’s objective of making the world
safe for democracy. Unfortunately, Wilson did not endorse the idea
that self-determination should necessarily carry over right away to
colonial areas. One of those dejected by that failure of the Treaty of
Versailles was a young man named Ho Chi Minh, who later emerged as the
leader of North Vietnam. He led the Vietnamese wars against the French
and then the Americans in Indochina and Vietnam throughout the 1950s,
1960s, and into the 1970s, in part for that right of
self-determination. Regrettably, in the process he imposed communist
rule in Vietnam with its attendant dictatorship and oppression of the
very principle of self-determination that he had at one time
advocated. To this day, the Vietnamese people do not have the right to
freely elect their own government.

