# A Matter of Degrees

T. Frank, *Rendezvous with Oblivion*

We begin with utopia—the utopia known as the American university
system. It is the finest educational institution in the world,
everyone tells us. Indeed, to judge by the praise that is heaped upon
it, the American university may be our best institution, period. With
its peaceful quadrangles and prosperity-bringing innovation, the
university is more satisfying than the church, more nurturing than the
family, more productive than any industry.

What universities produce are dreams. Like other utopias—like Walt
Disney World, like the ambrosial lands shown in perfume
advertisements, like the competitive Valhalla of the Olympics—the
university is a place of wish fulfillment and infinite possibility. It
is the four-year luxury cruise that will transport us gently across
the gulf of class. It is the wrought-iron gateway to the land of
lifelong affluence.

It is not the university itself that tells us these things; it is
*everyone* that does. It is the president of the United States. It is
our most respected political commentators and economists. It is our
business heroes and our sports heroes. It is our favorite teacher and
our guidance counselor and maybe even our own Tiger Mom. They’ve been
to the university, after all. They know.[..]

Thomas Friedman, the New York Times foreign affairs columnist who has
refashioned himself into the Lord Protector of Learning in recent
years, says the same thing, constantly: you’d better have the
schooling and the skills that employers demand if you want to make
even a minimal living. The higher education mantra is possibly the
greatest cliché in American public life.

And so the dreams proliferate. Education is the competitive advantage
that might save our skins as we compete more and more directly with
China and Vietnam and the Philippines, the journalists say. Education
is what explains income inequality, chime the economists, and more
education is what will roll it back. In fact, education is just about
the only way we can justify being paid for our work at all; it is the
only quantifiable input that makes us valuable or gives us “skills.”

Quantifiable, yes, but only vaguely. No one really knows the exact
educational recipe that is supposed to save us. It is, again, a dream,
a secret formula, a black box into which we pour money and out of
which comes uplift and enrichment and wish fulfillment. How a college
education manages to do these marvelous things—Is it calculus? Is it
classics?—is a subject of hot controversy. All we know for sure is
that people who go to college are affluent; it follows naturally that
if you send more people to college, you will have yourself a more
affluent country.

It’s simple, really. Get yourself a bachelor’s degree from a “good
school” and those dreamy dreams of yours can come true. Get something
else, like a cosmetologist’s license or a membership in the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and you lose.

What everyone agrees on is this: higher education is the industry that
sells tickets to the affluent life. In fact, they are the only ones
licensed to do this. Yes, there are many colleges one can choose
from—public, private, and for-profit—but collectively they control the
one credential that we believe to be of value. Everything about them
advertises it. The armorial logos, the Gothic towers, even the names
of the great colleges, so redolent of money and privilege and
aristocracy: Duke and Princeton and Vanderbilt. If you want to
succeed, you must go to them; they are the ones controlling the gate.

What they sell, in other words, is something we believe to be so
valuable it is almost impossible to measure. Anyone in her right mind
would pay an enormous price for it [or cheat to get in].

Another fact: this same industry, despite its legal status as a public
charity, is today driven by motives almost indistinguishable from
those of the profit-maximizing entities traded on the New York Stock
Exchange.

The coming of “academic capitalism” has been anticipated and praised
for years; today it is here. Colleges and universities clamor greedily
for pharmaceutical patents and ownership chunks of high-tech
start-ups; they boast of being “entrepreneurial”; they have
rationalized and outsourced countless aspects of their operations in
the search for cash; they fight their workers nearly as ferociously as
a nineteenth-century railroad baron; and the richest among them have
turned their endowments into in-house hedge funds.

Now, consider the seventeen-year-old customer against whom this
predatory institution squares off. He comes loping to the bargaining
table armed with about the same amount of guile that, a few years
earlier, he brought to Santa’s lap in the happy holiday shopping
center. You can be sure that he knows all about the imperative of
achieving his dreams, and the status that will surely flow from
attending a “good school.” Either he goes to college like the rest of
his friends or he goes to work.

He knows enough about the world to predict the kind of work he’ll get
with only a high school diploma in his pocket, but of the ways of the
university he knows precious little. He is the opposite of a savvy
consumer. And yet here he comes nevertheless, armed with the ability
to pay virtually any price his dream school demands that he pay. All
he needs to do is sign a student loan application, binding himself
forever and inescapably with a financial instrument he only dimly
understands and that, thanks to the optimism of adolescence, he has
not yet learned to fear.

The disaster that the university has proceeded to inflict on the youth
of America, I submit, is the direct and inescapable outcome of this
grim equation. Yes, in certain reaches of the system the variables are
different and the yield isn’t quite as dreadful as in others. But by
and large, once all the factors I have described were in place, it was
a matter of simple math. Grant to an industry control over access to
the good things in life; insist that it transform itself into a
throat-cutting, market-minded mercenary; get thought leaders to
declare it the answer to every problem—and, last, send it your
unsuspecting kids, armed with a blank check drawn on their own future.

Was it not inevitable? Put these pieces together, and *of course*
attendance costs will ascend at a head-swimming clip, reaching $70,000
a year now at some private schools. *Of course* young people will be
saddled with life-crushing amounts of debt; *of course* the university
will use its knowledge of them—their list of college choices, their
campus visits, their hopes for the future—to extract every last
possible dollar from the teenage mark and her family [and *of course*
a lot would cheat to get in]. It is lambs trotting blithely to the
slaughter. It is the utterly predictable fruits of our simultaneous
love affairs with college and the market. It is the same lesson taught
us by so many other disastrous privatizations: in our passion for
​entrepreneurship and meritocracy, we forgot that maybe the market
wasn’t the solution to all things.[..]

In March 2012, two hundred thousand protesters took to the streets of
Montreal, clashing with police and triggering the Quebec legislature’s
passage of Bill 78, which placed strict limitations on Canada’s
traditional freedom of assembly. What motivated this demonstration,
among the biggest acts of civil disobedience in Canadian history?
Financial malfeasance? Another war in Iraq?

No and no. What brought the vast throng to the barricades was a
proposed increase in Quebec’s college tuition rate, from an annual
average of about $2,100 to $3,700.

Americans could only observe this spectacle with bewilderment. For
decades, we have sat by placidly while the average price of college
has grown astronomically.

Then again, Americans know something about higher education that
Canadians don’t: the purpose of college isn’t education, per
se. According to a 2011 article in the Review of Economics ​and
Statistics, American undergrads spend less time at their studies
nowadays than ever. At the most reputable schools, meanwhile, they get
great grades no matter how they perform.

But we aren’t concerned about any of that. Americans have figured out
that universities exist in order to open the gates of social class,
and we pay our princely tuition rates in order to obtain just one
thing: the degree, the golden ticket, the capital-C Credential.  The
question that naturally follows is: given the rigged nature of the
higher-ed game, why would self-interested actors continue to play by
the rules?  The answer, to a surprising extent, is that they don’t [..]

It takes only a few hours researching these subjects to make you start
to wonder about the swirling tides of fraud that advance and retreat
beneath society’s placid, meritocratic surface. Eventually you start
wondering about that surface, too, where everything seems to be in its
place and everyone has the salary he or she deserves.  The diploma
mills hold up a mirror to the self-satisfied world of white-collar
achievement, and what you see there isn’t pretty. Think about it this
way: who purchases bogus degrees?

Many of the customers, of course, are simply people who want to go to
college and are taken in by the scam. Many others, judging by how the
industry advertises itself, are desperate people whose careers are
going nowhere. They know they need a diploma to succeed, but they can
hardly afford to borrow fifty grand and waste four years of their
lives at Frisbee State; they’ve got jobs, dammit, and families, and
car payments to make. Someone offers them a college degree in
recognition of their actual experience—and not only does it sound
attractive, it sounds fair. Who is to say that they are less deserving
of life’s good things than someone whose parents paid for him to goof
off at a glorified country club two decades ago? And who, really, is
to say that they know less than the graduate turned out last month by
some adjunct-run, beer-soaked, grade-inflated but fully accredited
debt factory in New England?[..]

I don’t defend fraudsters, of course. But as we wring our hands over
the low-level cheaters who get jobs with mail-order degrees, it is
important to remember that the pillars propping up our legitimate
system are also corrupt: that the sacred Credential signifies less and
less each year, even as it costs more and more to obtain. Yet we act
as though it represents everything. It’s a million-dollar coin made of
pot metal—of course it attracts counterfeiters.
