# The End of Work

Jeremy Rifkin

The term "consumption" has both English and French roots. In its
original form, to consume meant to destroy, to pillage, to subdue, to
exhaust. It is a word steeped in violence and until the present
century had only negative connotations. [In the past the word was]
used to refer to the most deadly disease of the
day--tuberculosis. Today the average American is consuming twice as
much as he or she did at the end of World War II. The metamorphosis of
consumption from vice to virtue is one of the most important yet least
examined phenomena of the twentieth century.

The mass-consumption phenomenon did not occur spontaneously, nor was
it the inevitable by-product of an insatiable human nature. Quite the
contrary. Economists at the turn of the century noted that most
working people were content to earn just enough income to provide for
their basic needs and a few luxuries, after which they preferred
increased leisure time over additional work hours and extra
income. According to economists of the day like Stanley Trevor and
John Bates Clark, as people's income and affluence increase, a
diminishing utility of returns sets in, making each increment in
wealth less desirable. The fact that people preferred to trade
additional hours of work for additional hours of leisure time became a
critical concern and a bane to businessmen whose inventories of goods
were quickly piling up on factory floors and in warehouses across the
nation.

With an increasing number of workers being displaced by new
laborsaving technologies and with production soaring, the business
community desperately searched for new ways to reorient the psychology
of existing wage earners, to draw them into what Edward Cowdrick, an
industrial relations consultant of the time, called "the new economic
gospel of consumption." Converting Americans from a psychology of
thrift to one of spendthrift proved a daunting task. The Protestant
work ethic, which had so dominated the American frontier ethos, was
deeply ingrained. Parsimony and savings were cornerstones of the
American way of life, part of the early Yankee tradition that had
served as a guidepost for generations of Americans as well as an
anchor for newly arrived immigrants determined to make a better life
for their children's generation. For most Americans, the virtue of
self-sacrifice continued to hold sway over the lure of immediate
gratification in the marketplace.

The American business community set out to radically change the
psychology that had built a nation--to turn American workers from
investors in the future to spenders in the present. Early on, business
leaders realized that in order to make people "want" things they had
never previously desired, they had to create "the dissatisfied
consumer." Charles Kettering of General Motors was among the first to
preach the new gospel of consumption. GM had already begun to
introduce annual model changes in its automobiles and launched a
vigorous advertising campaign designed to make consumers discontent
with the car they already owned. "The key to economic prosperity,"
said Kettering, "is the organized creation of dissatisfaction." The
economist John Kenneth Galbraith put it more succinctly years later,
observing that the new mission of business was to "create the wants it
seeks to satisfy." [..]

Consumption economists like Hazel Kyrk were quick to point out the
commercial advantages of turning a nation of working people into
status-conscious consumers. Growth, she declared, required a new level
of consumer buying. "Luxuries for the well-off," she argued, had to be
"turned into necessities for the poorer classes." Overproduction and
technological unemployment could be mitigated, even eliminated, if
only the working class could be re-educated toward the "dynamic
consumption of luxuries."

Transforming the American worker into a status-conscious consumer was
a radical undertaking. Most Americans were still making most of their
own goods at home. Advertisers used every available means and
opportunity to denigrate "homemade" products and to promote the
"store-bought" and "factory-made" items. The young were particularly
targeted. Advertising messages were designed to make them feel ashamed
of wearing or using homemade products. Increasingly, the battle lines
were drawn around the issue of being [..] "old-fashioned." Fear of
being left behind proved a powerful motivating force in stimulating
purchasing power. Labor historian Harry Braverman captured the
commercial spirit of the times, remarking that "the source of status
is no longer the ability to make things but simply the ability to
purchase them."

By 1929 the mass psychology of consumerism had taken hold in
America. The traditional American virtues of Yankee frugality and
frontier self-sacrifice were fading. That year President Herbert
Hoover's Committee on Recent Economic Changes published a revealing
report on the profound change in human psychology that had taken place
in less than a decade. The report ended with a glowing prediction of
what lay ahead for America: The survey has proved conclusively what
has long been held theoretically to be true, that wants are
insatiable; that one want satisfied makes way for another. The
conclusion is that economically we have a boundless field before us;
that there are new wants which will make way endlessly for newer wants
as fast as they are satisfied .... By advertising and other
promotional devices... a measurable pull on production has been
created... It would seem that we can go on with increasing
activity... Our situation is fortunate, our momentum remarkable.

Just a few short months later the stock market crashed, plunging the
nation and the world into the darkest depression of the modern
age. The Hoover Committee, like many of the politicians and business
leaders of the day, was so fixated on the idea that supply creates
demand that it was unable to see the negative dynamic that was
careening the economy into a major depression. In order to compensate
for the rising technological unemployment brought about by the
introduction of new laborsaving technologies, American corporations
poured millions of dollars into advertising and marketing campaigns,
hoping to convince the still-employed workforce to engage in an orgy
of spending. Unfortunately, the income of wage earners was not rising
fast enough to keep up with the increases in productivity and
output. Most employers preferred to pocket the extra profit realized
from productivity gains rather than pass the savings along to the
workers in the form of higher wages. Henry Ford, to his credit,
suggested that workers be paid enough to buy the products companies
were producing. Otherwise, he asked, "who would buy my cars?" His
colleagues chose to ignore the advice...

The increasing violence taking place on the streets of America is
being played out in other industrialized nations throughout the
world. In October 1999 in Vaulx-en-Velin, a depressed working class
town near Lyon, hundreds of youth took to the streets, clashing with
police and later riot troops, for more than three days. Although the
riot was triggered by the death of a teenager run over by a police
car, local residents and government officials alike blamed increasing
unemployment and poverty for the rampage. Youths stoned cars, burned
down local businesses, and injured scores of people. By the time it
was over, the damages had run to $2o million.

In Bristol, England, in July 1992, violence erupted in the wake of an
accident uncannily similar to the one that occurred in
Vaulx-en-Velin. A police car had run over and killed two teenagers who
had stolen a police motorcycle. Hundreds of youth rampaged through the
shopping area, destroying commercial property. Over 5oo elite troops
had to be called up to quell the disturbance."

French sociologist Loic Wacquant, who has made an extensive study of
urban rioting in first-world cities, says that in almost every
instance the communities that riot share a common sociological
profile. Most are formerly working class communities that have been
caught up in and left behind by the transition from a manufacturing to
an information-based society. According to Wacquant, "For the
residents of flagging working class areas, the reorganization of
capitalist economies--visible in the shift from manufacturing to
education intensive services, the impact of electronic and automation
technologies in factories and offices, and the erosion of
unions... have translated into unusually high rates of long-term
joblessness and a regression of material conditions." [..]

A growing number of politicians and political parties--especially in
Europe--have been playing off the concerns of working class and poor
communities, exploiting their xenophobic fears of immigrants taking
away precious jobs [..]. Rarely, in their public statements, do any of
the leaders of the extreme right broach the issue of technology
displacement. Yet it is the forces of downsizing, re-engineering, and
automation that are having the most effect on eliminating jobs in
working class communities in every industrial country.

Nathan Gardeis, the editor of New Perspectives Quarterly, summed up
the prevailing mood in terms remarkably similar to the arguments used
to characterize the plight of urban blacks just thirty years ago, when
they were uprooted first by new agricultural technologies in the South
and then by mechanical and numerical-control technologies in Northern
factories. "From the standpoint of the market," says Gardeis, "the
ever swelling ranks of the [unemployed] face a fate worse than
colonialism: economic irrelevance." The bottom line, argues Gardeis,
is that "we don't need what they have and they can't buy what we
sell." Gardeis foresees an increasingly lawless and foreboding
future--a world populated by "patches of order and swaths of
pandemonium." Some military experts believe that we are entering into
a new and dangerous period of history increasingly characterized by
what they call low-intensity conflict: warfare fought by terrorist
gangs, bandits, guerrillas, and others.

Military historian Martin Van Creveld says that the distinctions
between war and crime are going to blur and even break down as
marauding bands of outlaws, some with vague political goals, menace
the global village with hit-and-run murders, car bombings,
kidnappings, and high-profile massacres. In the new environment of
low-intensity conflict, standing armies and national police forces
will become increasingly powerless to quell or even contain the
mayhem, and will likely give way to private security forces that will
be paid to secure safe zones for the elite classes of the high-tech
global village.

Two very specific courses of action will need to be vigorously pursued
if the industrialized nations are to successfully make the transition
into a post-market era in the twenty-first century. First,
productivity gains resulting from the introduction of new labor and
time-saving technologies will have to be shared with millions of
working people. Dramatic advances in productivity will need to be
matched by reductions in the number of hours worked and steady
increases in salaries and wages in order to ensure an equitable
distribution of the fruits of technological progress. Secondly, the
shrinking of mass employment in the formal market economy and the
reduction of government spending in the public sector will require
that greater attention be focused on the third sector: the non-market
economy.

It is the third sector--the social economy--that people will likely
look to in the coming century to help address personal and societal
needs that can no longer be dealt with by either the marketplace or
legislative decrees. This is the arena where men and women can explore
new roles and responsibilities and find new meaning in their lives now
that the commodity value of their time is vanishing. The partial
transfer of personal loyalties and commitments away from the market
and the public sector and to the informal, social economy foreshadows
fundamental changes in institutional alignments and a new social
compact as different from the one governing the market era as it, in
turn, is different from the feudal arrangements of the medieval era
that preceded it.


