# The third industrial revolution

THE first industrial revolution began in Britain in the late 18th century, with the mechanisation of the textile industry. [.. This] way of making things involved taking lots of parts and screwing 
or welding them together. Now a product can be designed on a computer 
and “printed” on a 3D printer, which creates a solid object by building 
up successive layers of material [..].  

Like all revolutions, this one will be disruptive. Digital technology
 has already rocked the media and retailing industries, just as cotton 
mills crushed hand looms and the Model T put farriers out of work. Many 
people will look at the factories of the future and shudder. They will 
not be full of grimy machines manned by men in oily overalls. Many will 
be squeaky clean—and almost deserted. Some carmakers already produce 
twice as many vehicles per employee as they did only a decade or so ago.
 Most jobs will not be on the factory floor but in the offices nearby, 
which will be full of designers, engineers, IT specialists, logistics 
experts, marketing staff and other professionals. The manufacturing jobs
 of the future will require more skills. Many dull, repetitive tasks 
will become obsolete: you no longer need riveters when a product has no 
rivets.

The revolution will affect not only how things are made, but where. 
Factories used to move to low-wage countries to curb labour costs. But 
labour costs are growing less and less important: a $499 
first-generation iPad included only about $33 of manufacturing labour, 
of which the final assembly in China accounted for just $8. Offshore 
production is increasingly moving back to rich countries not because 
Chinese wages are rising, but because companies now want to be closer to
 their customers so that they can respond more quickly to changes in 
demand [..]

Consumers will have little difficulty adapting to the new age of better 
products, swiftly delivered. Governments, however, may find it harder. 
Their instinct is to protect industries and companies that already 
exist, not the upstarts that would destroy them. They shower old 
factories with subsidies and bully bosses who want to move production 
abroad. They spend billions backing the new technologies which they, in 
their wisdom, think will prevail. And they cling to a romantic belief 
that manufacturing is superior to services, let alone finance.

--

The eye-opener is  "$499 first-generation iPad included only about $33 of manufacturing labour" -- another indicator of  why Chinese model is not sustainable. As avid readers of the Third Wave, the Chinese themselves surely  know this, and sooner or later, they too will have to terms with the necessity of transititioning to a more knowledge intensive and service related economy. 







at

April 22, 2012















