# End Times

Peter Turchin

The extent to which economic elites dominate government in the United
States is very unusual compared to other Western
democracies. Countries like Denmark and Austria have ruling classes
that have been fairly responsive to the [needs] of their
population. During the postwar period, these countries were ruled by
strong center-left parties, such as social democrats and
socialists. Center-left parties rotated in power with center-right
parties, but a strong consensus for the welfare state was shared
broadly by the ruling elites in Western European
democracies. Countries such as Denmark and Austria usually occupy the
top positions when UN countries are ranked for their ability to
deliver a high quality of life for their citizens... On many
indicators of quality of life—life expectancy, equality, education—the
US is an outlier in the Western world. Why?

[After 1500s] the conditions of intense warfare [via gunpowder,
perfected in Europe] favor[ed] larger, more cohesive states. Small
principalities and city-states could no longer hide behind their
walls, which were easily breached by cannons. Intense military
competition between European states weeded out those that couldn’t
raise large armies; produce muskets and artillery in quantity; and
build expensive modern fortifications that could withstand cannon
fire. The Military Revolution also triggered a revolution in
governance and finance because successful states had to learn how to
efficiently extract and use wealth from their populations... As a
result, medieval militocracies gradually evolved into ruling classes
that combined military and administrative functions.

Although most plutocracies rapidly went extinct, some lingered longer
than others. The Republic of Venice, located on islands protected by
its lagoon, lasted longer than the other Italian city-states... thanks
to its protected position in the British Isles, once England conquered
all of them, it could, and did, dispense with the standing army (at
least within England itself). The squirearchy, which started as a
military class, gradually lost its military character and became
simply a class of landowners, from which members of the British
Parliament were elected... Unlike the other European great powers,
which had to direct most of their resources into land armies or be
conquered, the British Empire poured its resources into its navy. As a
result, the United Kingdom came to be ruled by an elite that combined
economic and administrative functions.

The antebellum ruling class in the US was a direct offshoot of the
English squirearchy. Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia were settled
by the Cavaliers, the faction of supporters of Charles I that lost the
English Civil War. They brought with them their aristocratic ways and
indentured servants. The latter were soon replaced by imported
Africans, enslaved for life. After they won the Revolutionary War
against the British Empire, the winners set about building their own
state. Southern planters and Northern merchants largely copied the
cultural forms of governance with which they were familiar. The early
American Republic was an oligarchy modeled after the United Kingdom,
although without a monarch (who, by that point, was on the way to
becoming just a figurehead in the British Empire anyway). As a result,
the United States inherited plutocracy as part of its 'cultural
genotype'.