# The Trouble with Physics

Smolin, 2006

The story of supersymmetry is one in which, from the beginning, the
game has been to hide the consequences of the unification. This..
explain[s] why, even after more than three decades of intensive
development, there are still no unambiguous testable
predictions... [Its inventors may have invented] a theoretical toy
that has nothing to do with nature. So far, there is no evidence
either way. In the last thirty years, the first thing done with every
new elementary-particle accelerator that has come on line has been to
look for the particles that supersymmetry predicts. None has been
found... we wait again for the next experiment.

Today that means keeping an eye on the Large Hadron Collider.. the
idea with the most at stake is supersymmetry. If the LHC sees
supersymmetry [we saw none], there will certainly be Nobel Prizes for
its inventors. If not, there will be dunce caps...

My own guess, for what it’s worth, is that (at least in the form so
far studied) supersymmetry will not explain the observations at the
LHC... But even if supersymmetry were detected [it wasn't], it would
not in itself be a solution to any of the five big problems I listed
in chapter 1. The constants of the standard model would not be
explained, because the MSSM has many more free constants. The possible
choices for a quantum theory of gravity would not be narrowed, because
the leading theories are all consistent with the world’s being
supersymmetric.
