# Week 20

Great review.There are a lot of nuances Lanier is missing; First, the
Net allows unexploited / unexpected / accidental talent, "the few", to
put their stuff out there by-passing all the second wave filters,
which on its own, is revolutionary enough (the kicker: _everyone_ has
such talent in some shape of form). Guy sitting at home watching
YouTube videos became an arms trafficking expert and exposes
trafficking in Syria. From YouTube videos.

But the masses, on the general kinds of things that the masses can do,
for themselves and others, will cause a lot of change through this
ultra-democratized medium as well. We are only seeing the tip of the
icerberg here.

"As he has done in the past, Lanier celebrates technology as a tool of
creativity [..] but he confesses that creating a “mass market for
ordinary people” rests on the shaky assumption that the masses “have
something to offer.”

No doubt there will be new kinds of accountants for nonmonetary
transactions in whatever comes after Second Life, as well as more
digital interface designers, but the massive shortcomings of one key
sector – education – to retool populations for an age of digital
networking remain mysteriously unaddressed in this book. Instead, the
solution to the hegemony of “Siren Servers” is more such servers, but
ones operating on the model of individual commercial rights he
advocates.

There is also a strong role for government in guaranteeing access to
data and digital identity protection, and also a digital central bank
to be a financial backbone. But isn’t this the same Congress that just
tried to pass the Stop Online Piracy Act? And would a digital Ben
Bernanke simply intoxicate the masses with trillions of zero-interest
credits?"

---

"If you sit kids down hour after hour, doing low-grade clerical work,
don't be suprised when they start to fidget".

---

So let me try to understand this: Student debt breaks records every year.

College tuitions are rising.

Median income is flat.

At the same time, hi-tech employers cannot find enough qualified workers.

Is there anything, anything wrong with this picture?

http://www.becker-posner-blog.com/2013/05/the-rise-in-college-tuition-and-student-loans-becker.html

http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2011/06/speedup-americans-working-harder-charts

"In what is now an annual ritual, a new crop of college graduates has
been crowned the most indebted class in American history.

Students in the class of 2013 graduated with an average debt load of
$30,000, according to an analysis by Mark Kantrowitz, publisher of
FinAid.org. Adjusted for inflation, that's roughly double the average
amount of debt students graduated with 20 years ago [..].

Outstanding student loan balances increased to a total of $986 billion
as of March 31, the New York Fed reported. Total student debt nearly
tripled over the past 8 years."

---
