# General Zod

I read somewhere new Superman movie will have General Zod as its
villain. Good choice -- the movie will have better change to be on
code. Western world cultural tug-of-war is between Rome and Jesus,
militarism and piece; in this lens General Zod will represent the
militarism side of the equation and that frees up Sman to be Jesus.

Also some suggestions.. In movies they always make S look like a damn
brick flying around. Give the man little flexibility. Have him use
some intellect, some ingenuity. In the comics I've read that big-ass
cape can stretch, have him use it to cover something. An explosion? A
planet? We (the people) also want a big action sequence where S is
kicking ass, in multiple directions, with everything available. Have
him build something on the fly, and again, bust a cap. Be
creative. Let's not forget the character is (now) a metaphor for the
postmodern human, hearing stuff at long distances (telephone),
strength (mechanical tools), speed (trains), flight (planes). If we
humans can combine these tools in creative ways, than the equivalent
uber-person should be able to do the same.

Someone apparently profiled the character using MBTI, and S comes out
to be an SJ, a Guardian. Protector, provider, etc. This type's primary
focus is logistics, rather than strategy or tactics. A real-life
persona, George Washingon was an SJ, during US war of independence, he
tried to conserve his resources, not take many risks, naturally-- but
he was also creative enough to turn the war to be in his own terms,
and effectively fight a guerilla campaign against the British
forces. So logistical mind doesn't automatically imply someone is a
dumb-ass.

Good luck.

