# Socialist Imperialism

Toffler, *The Third Wave*

The U.S.S.R. and other socialist nations portrayed themselves as
anti-imperialist friends of the colonial peoples of the world. In
1916, a year before he took power, Lenin had written a slashing attack
on the capitalist nations for their colonial policies. His *Imperialism*
became one of the most influential books of the century and still
shapes the thinking of hundreds of millions around the world.

But Lenin saw imperialism as a purely capitalist phenomenon.
Capitalist nations, he insisted, oppressed and colonized other nations
not out of choice but out of necessity. A dubious iron law, put
forward by Marx, held that profits in capitalist economies showed a
general, irresistible tendency to decline over time. Because of this,
Lenin held, capitalist nations in their final stage were driven to
seek "super-profits" abroad to compensate for diminishing* profits at
home. Only socialism, he argued, would free colonial peoples from
their oppression and misery, because socialism had no built-in dynamic
requiring their economic exploitation.

What Lenin overlooked is that many of the same imperatives that drove
capitalist industrial nations operated in socialist industrial nations
as well. They, too, were part of the world money system. They, too,
based their economies on the divorce of production from
consumption. They, too, needed a market (albeit not necessarily a
profit-oriented market) to reconnect producer and consumer. They, too,
needed raw materials from abroad to feed their industrial
machines. And for these reasons they, too, needed an integrated world
economic system through which to obtain their necessities and sell
their products abroad.

Indeed Lenin, at the very same time he attacked imperialism, spoke of
socialism's aim "not only to bring the nations closer together but to
integrate them." As the Soviet analyst M. Senin has written in
Socialist Integration, Lenin by 1920 "regarded the drawing together of
nations as an objective process which ... will finally and ultimately
lead to the creation of a single world economy, regulated by ... a
common plan." This, if anything, was the ultimate industrial vision.

Externally, socialist industrial nations were driven by the same
resource needs as capitalist nations. They, too, needed cotton, coffee,
nickel, sugar, wheat, and other goods to feed their fast-multiplying
factories and their urban populations. The Soviet Union had (and
still has) enormous reserves of natural resources. It has manganese,
lead, zinc, coal, phosphates, and gold. But so had the United States,
and that stopped neither nation from seeking to buy from others at
the cheapest possible price...

Socialist managers and economists, exactly like their capitalist
counterparts, thus calculated the cost of producing their own raw
materials as against the cost of purchasing them. They faced a
straight "make or buy" decision of the kind capitalist corporations
confront every day. And it soon became apparent that buying certain
raw materials on the world market would be cheaper than trying to
produce them at home.

Once this decision was made, sharp Soviet purchasing agents fanned out
into the world market and bought at prices previously set at
artificially low levels by imperialist traders. Soviet trucks rolled
on rubber bought at prices that were probably determined ab initio by
British merchants in Malaya. Worse, in recent years the Soviets (who
maintain troops there) paid Guinea six dollars per ton for bauxite
when the Americans were paying twenty-three dollars. India has
protested that the Russians overcharge them 30 percent on imports and
pay 30 percent too little for Indian exports. Iran and Afghanistan
received subnormal prices from the Soviets for natural gas. Thus the
Soviet Union, like its capitalist adversaries, benefited at the
expense of the colonies. To have done otherwise would have been to
slow its own industrialization process.

The Soviet Union was also driven toward imperialist policies by
strategic considerations. Faced with the military might of Nazi
Germany, the Soviets first colonized the Baltic states and made war on
Finland. After World War II, with troops and the threat of invasion,
they helped install or maintain "friendly" regimes throughout most of
Eastern Europe. These countries, more industrially advanced than the
U.S.S.R. itself, were intermittently milked by the Soviets, justifying
their description as colonies or "satellites."
