# Robots Eating Jobs

Barbara Ehrenreich, NYT

[T]he human consequences of robotization are already upon us, and 
skillfully chronicled [in the book]. Although the unemployment rate has fallen to
 officially acceptable levels, long-term unemployment persists, and 
underemployment — part-time jobs when full-time jobs are needed, or jobs
 that do not reflect a worker’s education — is on the rise. 
College-educated people often flounder for years after graduation, 
finding temp jobs and permanent roommates. Adults of both sexes are 
drifting out of the work force in despair. All of this has happened by 
choice, though not the choice of the average citizen and worker. In the 
wake of the recession, Ford writes, many companies decided that 
“ever-advancing information technology” allows them to operate 
successfully without rehiring the people they had laid off. And there 
should be no doubt that technology is advancing in the direction of full
 unemployment. Ford quotes the co-founder of a start-up dedicated to the
 automation of gourmet hamburger production: “Our device isn’t meant to 
make employees more efficient. It’s meant to completely obviate them.”

Ford offers little hope that emerging technologies will eventually 
generate new forms of employment, in the way that blacksmiths yielded to
 autoworkers in the early 20th century. He predicts that new industries 
will “rarely, if ever, be highly labor-intensive,” pointing to companies
 like YouTube and Instagram, which are characterized by “tiny workforces
 and huge valuations and revenues.” On another front, 3-D printing is 
poised to make a mockery of manufacturing as we knew it. Truck driving 
may survive for a while — at least until self-driving vehicles start 
rolling out of Detroit or, perhaps, San Jose [..]

In “Rise of the Robots,” Ford argues that a society based on luxury 
consumption by a tiny elite is not economically viable. More to the 
point, it is not biologically viable. Humans, unlike robots, need food, 
health care and the sense of usefulness often supplied by jobs or other 
forms of work. His solution is blindingly obvious: As both conservatives
 and liberals have proposed over the years, we need to institute a 
guaranteed annual minimum income, which he suggests should be set at 
$10,000 a year. This is probably not enough, and of course no amount of 
money can compensate for the loss of meaningful engagement. But as a 
first step toward a solution, Ford’s may be the best that the feeble 
human mind can come up with at the moment.








at

May 20, 2015















