# Trolls

As technology has and continues to become a more important factor
across industries of all size, companies looked to adapt to the new
economy and provide better, more efficient products for costumers. But
patent trolls have capitalized on the trend. PAEs were responsible for
62% of patent suits filed in 2012 and they are broadening their target
past traditional large tech companies and on to smaller, easier prey
with less capital and resources. End-user patent suits, which is the
practice of targeting businesses that use a piece of patented
technology with low quality patents owned by troll companies, are on
the rise. Non-tech sectors, such as restaurants, retailers, even
funeral homes, are accounting for a larger share of total patents
initiated by PAEs, increasing to over half in 2012. The damage caused
by trolls cannot just be measured in lost revenue. There are
incalculable opportunity costs, lost operational time and undue stress
on startup founders.

And then there's the exorbitant legal cost regardless of whether the
defending company wins at trial. Average defense cost in a patent case
is reportedly over 1.5 million dollar through the end of discovery and
about 2.8 million dollar through final disposition. It's an amount few
startups can afford. In fact, extorting settlements with threat of
high litigation cost is exactly the strategy employed by patent trolls
in almost all cases.













