# Agriculture, Slavery

If we look at a slave as a economic unit, you have to get more out of
him economically then you put in. Only in an agrarian setting is this
possible. Rome, Ottomans all had slaves. In the US South slaves were
used to pick cotton. Slavery really did not have anything to do with
skin color - my guess is in US it was preferred, because Africa was on
one of the trade routes, plus, in a white society it was easier to
identify slaves if they were in different color, that could have been
another reason for black slavery in America. But otherwise there was
slavery of all kinds around the Mediterranean - white or black.

[Link](https://www.ducksters.com/history/ancient_rome/slaves.php)

[During the years of the Roman Empire a] fairly large percentage of
the people living in Rome and Italy were slaves. Historians aren't
sure of an exact percentage but somewhere between 20% and 30% of the
people were slaves. During the early parts of the Roman Empire, as
many as one third of the people in Rome were slaves.

Rifkin

Slave labor built the great pyramids of Egypt, the Great Wall of
China, and the ceremonial shrines of the Mayan and Teotihuacan
civilizations in the Americas. The Great Wall in China required the
labor of more than a million slaves, half of whom perished in the
effort. Nearly 20 percent of the population of Rome in the first few
centuries A.D. were slaves.

Whereever there is agriculture, there is slavery.

Think about it; could there be slavery pre-agro? Let's say you wanted
to make a fellow forager a slave.. u pick a little guy, your mini-me,
u smack'em around, he makes you laugh... But now you have to take care
of this other person, need to hunt twice as much to obtain food. If he
hunted, foraged by himself, he can't be slaved. So economically,
slavery before farming makes no sense. Only through landowning,
farming you can create a surplus some of which you can use to hire
guards, overseers, managing labor which then creates even more
surplus.

