# Austerity

[PDF](https://www.mdpi.com/2227-7099/6/4/62/pdf)

Butkus et al

Substantial attention has been paid to the examination of economic
growth—public debt nexus.  In theory we can find arguments for
positive, negative or neutral effect of government borrowing on
economy. From Keynesian point of view, expansionary fiscal policy
leads to higher debt level and simultaneously stimulates GDP growth,
especially through the mechanism of expenditure multiplier.  However,
this positive effect is expected mostly in the short-run. The
neo-classical theory asserts harmful impact of public debt, known as
crowding-out effect. Government borrowing can result in higher
interest rates and thus reduce private investment and
growth. Ricardian equivalence suggests that public deficit and debt do
not make influence on growth. Increase in demand because of
debt-financed government consumption is offset by rising
savings. People save more as they prepare for future tax increase,
when it will be necessary to repay high public debt.

In the sample of 20 developed countries, Reinhart and Rogoff (2010)
find negative relationship between debt and economic growth, when
public debt to GDP ratio exceeds 90 percent. Pattillo et al. (2011)
estimate much lower threshold for the panel of 93 developing
countries. The debt levels above 30–40% of the GDP start hindering per
capita growth. Checherita-Westphal et al. (2014) conclude that optimal
debt to the GDP ratio for Euro area is around 50% and 65% is for the
sample of 22 OECD countries.  Baum et al. (2013) perform regression
analyses for 12 Euro zone countries and indicate that the negative
debt-growth relationship occurs when the debt level exceeds 95% of the
GDP. To avoid reverse causality Woo and Kumar (2015) examine the
impact of initial debt level on subsequent growth (5–20 years) of real
GDP per capita in a panel of 38 advanced and emerging economies. They
found some evidence for the threshold of initial debt-to-GDP ratio of
90%, having larger negative effect on the growth in the future. Afonso
and Jalles (2013), Herndon et al. (2014) obtain the opposite
results. They found no evidence that the GDP growth of the countries
with high levels of debt (above 90% to GDP) is different from ones
with low debt ratios...

Most empirical studies confirm the adverse impact of government debt
on growth. The growing number of recent works investigates the optimal
level of government debt and supports the idea of non-linear, an
inverted U-shaped debt-growth relationship...

The estimated threshold value above which the impact of debt on growth
becomes harmful varies between 30–95% of GDP and gives a little
insight into what the optimal level of debt is. As Panizza and
Presbitero point out, it might be impossible to find a single debt
tipping point that holds for all countries, because a range of factors
can shape the impact of debt on growth..

