# Stealth War, China by General Spalding

In 1970, one year after China ominously detonated two hydrogen bombs
near its Russian border, Mao sent a message to President Richard Nixon
inviting him to visit China. In Washington, this was seen as an
intriguing opening. Nixon and his Cold Warrior secretary of state
Henry Kissinger saw the opportunity to work with China as a way to
further destabilize and isolate the USSR...
			
Mao and the CCP—having extracted all they could from the Soviets, who
were ​clearly losing ground to Western technological and economic
developments ...
			
They found [another state] with the deepest pockets, the best research
and design infrastructure, the most innovative technology, and the
strongest armed forces in the world: the United States of America" ...

The portfolios of the fifty states’ public pension systems are filled
with stocks and bonds backing Chinese companies that should be flagged
as bad actors—companies that build missiles or warships. These
investments have national security implications, and investment
managers need to start acting responsibly. This issue needs to become
part of the national dialogue. Would American investors have invested
in Germany during World War II? China’s brutal human rights
abuses—forced internment, denial of assembly, brainwashing—are eerily
reminiscent of Nazi behavior. And with the use of relentless digital
surveillance to persecute a population because of its faith, this
oppressive governmental strategy actually deserves a new designation:
post-Nazi ...

[Robinson] wrote attention-grabbing articles about the trans-Siberian
oil pipeline. His alarming projections regarding the future completion
of the pipeline caught the attention of William (Bill) Clark, Ronald
Reagan’s closest adviser ... [He] predicted that when the pipeline
became fully operational, it would provide 70 percent of Western
Europe’s energy needs. That would bolster the Soviet Union’s depleted
coffers—exhausted by a deadly war in Afghanistan and efforts to match
the massive US military buildup and the West’s onslaught of
technological innovation. It would also simultaneously increase
Western Europe’s dependence on the Eastern Bloc. Robinson joined the
NSC, where, .. he hatched a multipronged offensive to not only stop
the pipeline but erode the Soviet economy.
			
'There were only about twelve people in the United States who were
aware of this economic and financial offensive,' Robinson says. 'It
was based on not just killing the second strand of the Siberian gas
pipeline, but delaying the first strand by about three years and then
denying official and, eventually, private credit access to Moscow.'
[they sabotaged the pipeline]
			
'There was also a secret agreement with the Saudis to pump two million
barrels of oil and decontrol domestic prices at the wellhead to drop
oil to 10 dollar a barrel.' Indeed, with oil prices plummeting from
37.42 dollar a barrel in 1980 (114 dollar, adjusted for inflation) to
such bargain prices, a vital source of hard currency income dried up
for the Soviets. Meanwhile, Robinson and the government actively
opposed any plans to permit the Soviets from issuing sovereign bonds,
further depriving our rivals of urgently needed cash [..]
			
​Limited access to much-needed foreign credit, an economy unable to
compete in new technology, and the strategic erosion of the empire on
so many fronts made it impossible for the Soviets to sustain their
sovereignty. In 1991, the country defaulted on 96 billion dollars in
hard currency debt. Two days later, the Soviet Union collapsed ...

Combatting China’s economic warfare will require business unusual—a
radical change in how our society thinks about fiduciary
responsibility. Regulators need to reorder the incentive system so
Wall Street, corporate America, and institutional investors will
change the current culture and ​mind-set that focuses on profits,
growth, and stock valuation as the only measures of success. That
isn’t to say the rules and motives of trade must be radically
altered. It’s to say that providing capital to China is a fool’s game
and, until things change, not only wastes money but incentivizes our
competitors, who seek to co-opt US market share and earnings. Billions
and billions of investor dollars are tied up in China. I’ve already
told you the story of the banker who lies awake at night wondering how
we will get our money back.

He is not alone. Corporations—huge multinational institutions—that
have leapt headfirst into China are faced with the same problem. They
don’t discuss the fact that they can’t actually move millions of
dollars out of China because if they did, that would upset
shareholders and result in lower—sometimes much lower—valuations. That
kind of thing costs CEOs their jobs. It also will cost investors
billions in losses. Seen in this light, it becomes clear that pouring
money into the Ponzi scheme of China abdicates fiduciary
responsibility. Profits that exist only in China and can’t be
converted into transferable currency are not, in any traditional
sense, profits.
			
There are other reasons powerful companies need to take their
operations out of China. By moving research, development, and
manufacturing there, they cede control of their intellectual property,
which, as the past thirty years have demonstrated, will be stolen or
co-opted. This, in effect, devalues the company ...

Businessman, billionaires go to China, then tell us democracy is
dead, look at China ...




