# Kurds in Anatolia

1920s

During TR's foundation there were some warm signals sent towards Kurds
who were, at least on paper, seen as equal founders of the
Republic. Such closeness would not be surprising since both peoples
fought in the war of liberation. But, as any astute observer at the
time could point out, knowing the ethnic nationalistic roots of the
new Republic and some of its most visible founders, things would
evolve to a different point later on. Evolve to a different point they
soon did.

After 1925 Sheikh Said rebellion and subsequent reforms, by 1933 Kemal
would utter the words *ne mutlu türküm diyene* (happy is who can say I
am a turk) in a speech with clear subtext that ppl who could not make
such claims would perhaps be unhappy (?) and take the last name
Ataturk himself in 1934, cementing ethnic nationalism in TR. The
identity of course is a concoction of [fairy tales](../../2020/04/turks-culture-national-narrative.md#identity)
per the dictates of [nationalism](../../2013/03/nations-and-nationalism-gellner.md#invention).

1960s

After 1960 coup naturally the state reverted to factory settings. A
young Kurdish student Dengir Firat reports, who did not care much of
his ethnic origin during those days, did not speak the language, was
from an affluent Kurdish family would see a poster one day carrying
the words of the then President that read "whoever says I am a Kurd,
spit on his face!". He would decide to learn Kurdish the next day, and
also pursue politics shortly thereafter.

1977

An armed leftist terrorist organization named PKK is formed. Tho their
roots and methods were Marxist they were largely influenced by ethnic
encroachement by the hegemon country in their region, Kurdistan. From
[1, pg. 421]; "It is also possible that the PKK's nationalism was all
the more virulent because its founders sought to recreate an identity
they felt they had lost. They were not alone: across the Middle East
religious and ethnic groups that felt the loss of traditional identity
through modernization or state attempts to homogenize society, sought
to rediscover it through a revivalism that invoked an imaginary
past. For the PKK the intensity of Kurdish national feeling was
accentuated by the loss of spoken Kurdish among its founding members.

In 1977 [.. they..] identified the enemies of the Kurdish people as
the fascists (Greywolves and similar groups); agents of the state and
those who supported them; the Turkish Left which subordinated the
Kurdish question to the leftist revolution and finally the
exploitative Kurdish landlord class".

1980s

The fascist coup of 1980 doubles down on nationalistic identity and
opresses Kurds even more. In the infamous Diyarbakir prison many Kurds
are tortured, whose suffering would fuel the PKK backlash many times
over. "The hell of 90s" in terms of their counterattack would be
fueled with the opression felt throughout the 80s.

<a name='opressword'/>

Among the regular public the coup would opress even the mention of the
word Kurd, in any publication. Growing up in this era I can attest; I
did not even know Kurds *existed* until well in my teens, perhaps
twenties. I laughed many years later when I heard a politician named
Selahattin Demirtaş reported the same experience, this is (tragic)
funny because Demirtaş himself is a Kurd!  I guess his parents were
scared, did not speak the language at home, did not mention the
identity to him with the fear of him slipping up, didn't let their
children know, so it went.

1990s

The hell of 90s.. I have friends who served in the campaigns of the
South East, met actual shell-shocked soldiers after the war. It's not
pretty. Sadly same errors are being repeated today, with continuous
declerations of "we finally quashed terror", a slogan that repeats
verbatim every 5-10 years. The sin is just too great for that ever to
be real, the punishment will not end until one absolves self of
sin. The greatest sin of all, uncalled for, unjustified war.

2015

A Kurdish party HDP led by Selahattin Demirtaş would gain >10% of the
votes, putting them in a kingmaker position. If democracy was followed
they could extract some concessions in return for some cultural
rights, strengthen localities, and be represented in the greater body
politic. The nationalists clearly did not want this route, terror
attacks were triggered likely by deep state actors, scaring regular
people and voters, which raised the votes of the party in
gov. Election was repeated in a disgusting show of phony democracy,
which gave the gov back its majority. Since this method worked,
trading democracy for votes in an atmosphere of scaremongering, it
continued, even intensified resulting with the eventual jailing of
Demirtaş, and many of his party members.


Reference

[1] McDowall, *A Modern History of the Kurds, 3rd Edition*
