# Right Acting Left, Fascism

Right can adapt left politics too, but they do not refer to it
excessively. Did this happen in history before? Yes. By a party who
called itself **Na**tionalso**zi**alistisch.  National socialists of
Germany.

"Well that's an old debate, later conservatives said 'look Nazis were
also socialist to bash the left". Yes yes.. I know all the twists and
turns of that polemic... But the fact remains, fascists did enact left
policies sometimes. It should not be surprising, they are trying to
help people! (then organize them to kill others, but that's later).

From *Hitler's True Believers*, "Insofar as Hitler had fixed ideas at
the end of the Great War in 1918, high on the list was nationalism, in
spite of the aspersions cast against it by mutinous sailors and
rebellious soldiers tired of the fighting. Some aspects of what became
his doctrine or ideology stemmed from the cluster of ideas,
resentments, and passions widely shared in Germany at that time. His
views and those of his comrades also reflected the fact that Germany
was already a nation with a great deal of egalitarianism baked into
its political culture.  Almost without exception, the Nazis emphasized
all kinds of socialist attitudes, to be sure a socialism 'cleansed' of
international Marxism and communism. Indeed, when he looked back from
1941, Hitler said of the NSDAP in the 1920s that '90 ninety percent of
it was made up by left-wing people.' He also thought it was 'decisive'
that he had recognized early in his career that solving the social
question was essential, and he insisted that he hated the closed world
in which he grew up, where social origins determined a person’s
chances in life.

That Germany on the eve of Hitler’s appointment as chancellor in
January 1933 continued to have a socialist-oriented political culture
can be illustrated by pointing to the last free elections of the
Weimar Republic the previous November. No less than 71.6 percent of
the vote went to parties with 'socialist' or 'communist' in their
titles"

[Link](https://www.econlib.org/how-socialist-was-national-socialism/)

"Fascism developed the Italian social security system, aimed at a
comprehensive restructuring of the relationships between factors of
production in a 'corporatist' fashion, and nationalized banks and
businesses. The second feature of the regime did not survive its end
(though one may argue that its legacy has long impacted the Italian
economy). But some version of social security and nationalized banks
and companies did"

Here's how it works; shit goes bad. Existing structures fail to help.
New leaders rise to fill the void, run the gamut around left and
right, left bcz ppl need it, but ultimately the nationalist part which
is incompatible spills over its borders, war ensues.

Nationalists do not use the L word bcz during 40s it is associated
with internationalism, or [shudder], Jews! It's not used now, but they
blow smoke up your ass with the word "populism" bcz Reaganism has been
banging on the other word decades.

But action speaks louder than words. Trump did promise not to touch
social security, Medicare, and promised to end wars during the 2016
campaign.

The moral of the story is existing parties, cover all bases, help as
much as possible bcz if all fails, then you get national socialism.

Additions

People have the wrong idea abt how these fascists come to power. The
expectation is President "Mountain Dew" Herbert Camacho shows up with
a machine gun, talks tough, all the time. No. After WWI Germany was
beaten down, economy in ruins, in a terrible state. You can't be like
Camacho. Fascist then first says **let me help you brother**. Much
later it's like let's kill some people over there.

<a name='fascism'/>

Fascist is the "whatever it takes" guy basically... His people are
beaten down and he wants to do *whatever it takes* to help. He'll take
from left, he'll take from right. Anything goes. The problem is he
sees himself as "firefighting" he'll mostly be dealing with symptoms
rather than causes. You are being laid off, he tells the employer not
to lay off, disregarding economic machinery. The country's culture is
getting out of kilter, foreigners have not assimilated properly,
instead of thinking better inclusion policy, he might say "let's just
kill them". He is fixing the problem, u see, or rather its outward
component, "doing whatever it takes" (while actually creating bigger
problems).  He's turned into locust from a mere
grasshopper. Desparation did that to him.

This partly explains his authoritarinism, since the fascist is trying
to *whatever it takes* to help, anyone who is objecting would be
objecting this person's core being. "How can anyone doubt me, I am
doing everything I can to help people". It's too personal you see,
instead of deciding on a general approach, selling it and executing it
once in power, he is "helping", right now, doing "whatever it takes".

In TR during the single-party rule and staunch nationalism one of its
governors was known to have said "if communism was necessary for this
country, we would surely import it". Sounds like a joke and it is told
as such, but the guy was dead serious. There you go, nationalist
talking about utilizing communism.. Or in China today, they are
communists, but imported capitalism, and happily using it. Italian
fascists created the social security system of the country.

That's why TR parties, coalitions are cesspools of proto-fascim, bunch
of stuff thrown in some container *beforehand*, from get-go, either
after coups, or in "parties" that live in the aftermath of those
coups. Take 4 views, throw them in, done. Of course it is impossible
to maintain incompatibilities for an extended period of time, that's
where fascism comes in.

A by-product of the approach is whatever the mix happens to be,
anything that is left out, is immediately deligitimized. This can be
the left, sometimes the right (and almost always Kurds), but there is
always the legitimate mix and "others".

Which and how the ideological parts get included can be completely
arbitrary, the mix is all in the mind of the fascist.

The leaders of these parties, coalitions are effective schizophrenics,
mental patients of DID (dissociative identity disorder). This is not
surprising bcz the poor asshole has to maintain all that crud in a
singular head. So one day he'll talk about his "pure race from the
steppes of Central Asia", the next socialism-level state intervention,
the one after that neoliberal market action. The followers clap
nevertheless, too braindead to realize something is off, but sadly for
the country, its media also suffer from the same condition who
mistake this show for politics.

Intensely opposing ideologies cannot be held together under one roof
in anything other than fascism.. A whatever-it-takes attitude usually
accompanies the approach, 4 whatever reason said country falls into a
state-of-emergency mentality from which they never emerge, so they
keep on living in an hand-to-mouth existence, "I'll take from here,
I'll take from there, whatever-it-takes, ends-justify-the-means", and
on it goes..

