# Robot Frankenstein

*The Industries of the Future*, Alec Ross

As robotics starts to spread, the degree to which countries can
succeed in the robot era will depend in part on culture—on how readily
people accept robots into their lives. Western and Eastern cultures
are highly differentiated in how they view robots. Not only does Japan
have an economic need and the technological know-how for robots, but
it also has a cultural predisposition. The ancient Shinto religion,
practiced by 80 percent of Japanese, includes a belief in animism,
which holds that both objects and human beings have spirits. As a
result, Japanese culture tends to be more accepting of robot
companions as actual companions than is Western culture, which views
robots as soulless machines. In a culture where the inanimate can be
considered to be just as alive as the animate, robots can be seen as
members of society rather than as mere tools or as threats.

<a name='west'>

In contrast, fears of robotics are deeply seated in Western
culture. The threat of humanity creating things we cannot control
pervades Western literature, leaving a long history of cautionary
tales. Prometheus was condemned to an eternity of punishment for
giving fire to humans. When Icarus flew too high, the sun melted his
ingenious waxed wings and he fell to his death. In Mary Shelley’s
Frankenstein, Dr. Frankenstein’s grotesque creation wreaks havoc and
ultimately leads to its creator’s death—and numerous B-movie remakes.

This fear does not pervade Eastern culture to the same extent. The
cultural dynamic in Japan is representative of the culture through
much of East Asia, enabling the Asian robotics industry to speed
ahead, unencumbered by cultural baggage. Investment in robots reflects
a cultural comfort with robots, and, in China, departments of
automation are well represented and well respected in the
academy. There are more than 100 automation departments in Chinese
universities, compared with approximately 76 in the United States
despite the larger total number of universities in the United States.

In South Korea, teaching robots are seen in a positive light; in
Europe, they are viewed negatively. As with eldercare, in Europe
robots are seen as machines, whereas in Asia they are viewed as
potential companions. In the United States, the question is largely
avoided because of an immigration system that facilitates the entry of
new, low-cost labor that often ends up in fields that might otherwise
turn to service robots. In the other parts of the world, attitudes
often split the difference. A recent study in the Middle East showed
that people would be open to a humanoid household-cleaning robot but
not to robots that perform more intimate and influential roles such as
teaching. The combination of cultural, demographic, and technological
factors means that we will get our first glimpse of a world full of
robots in East Asia.


