# Rome by Rifkin

*The Emphatic Civilization*, Rifkin

Plant cultivation—aided by irrigation systems—greatly increased the
yield per unit of human energy or labor expended. Agricultural
surpluses also freed at least some people from toil on the
land. Freeing people from labor created the beginnings of a social
hierarchy and the differentiation of tasks. Priest and warrior classes
slowly emerged, as did an artisan class somewhat later on. The
differentiation and specialization of tasks spawned new, more complex
institutional arrangements ...

Later in history, our forebears captured and 'harnessed' one another
as energy-producing power plants—a process that continued apace until
the latter part of the 19th century—and used human slavery as a means
to increase energy flow. Slave labor built the great pyramids of
Egypt, the Great Wall of China, and the ceremonial shrines of the
Mayan and Teotihuacan civilizations in the Americas. The Great Wall in
China required the labor of more than a million slaves, half of whom
perished in the effort.12 Nearly 20 percent of the population of Rome
in the first few centuries A.D. were slaves. ...

Maintaining [Rome's] infrastructure and population in a
non-equilibrium state [ruling over bunch ppl, centrally is inherently
unstable] required large amounts of energy. Its energy regime,
however, was becoming exhausted. With no other alternative sources of
energy available, Rome put even more pressure on its dwindling energy
legacy. By the fifth century, the size of the government and military
bureaucracy had doubled. To pay for it, taxes were increased, further
impoverishing the population, especially the dwindling farm
population. The empire, writes Joseph Tainter, began consuming its own
capital in the form of 'producing lands and peasant populations'.

Weakened by a depleted energy regime, the empire began to
crumble. Basic services dwindled. The immense Roman infrastructure
fell into disrepair. The military could no longer hold marauding
invaders at bay. Barbarian hordes began to whittle away at the
decaying Roman Empire, at first in distant lands. By the sixth
century, the invaders were at the gates of Rome. The great Roman
Empire had collapsed. By the sixth century, the population of Rome,
once numbering more than 1,000,000, had shrunk to less than 30,000
inhabitants. The city itself was reduced nearly to rubble, a stark
reminder of how unforgiving the energy laws are.

The [damage] was enormous. The available free [resources] of the
Mediterranean, North Africa, and large parts of Continental Europe,
reaching as far north as Spain and England, had been sucked into the
Roman machine. Deforested land, eroded soil, and impoverished and
diseased human populations lay scattered across the empire. Europe
would not recover for another 600 years ...




