# All Too Human

G. Stephanopoulos

<a name='triangulation'/>

“I've been talking to Clinton constantly since the election,” [Dick]
Morris continued...  His index finger tapped furiously at a slim
pocket computer that stored the polls he called his “prayer book.”
Weaving that data with bits of policy analysis, political science
theory, and historical analogies from England, America, and France,
Dick spun out an elaborate “Theory of the Race” — that Clinton would
win in 1996 if he “neutralized” the Republicans and “triangulated” the
Democrats.

Neutralization required passing big chunks of the Republican agenda: a
balanced budget, tax cuts, welfare reform, an end to affirmative
action. This would “relieve the frustrations” that got them elected in
1994 and allow Clinton to “push them to the right” on “popular” issues
like gun control and a woman's right to choose in 1996. Triangulation
demanded that Clinton abandon “Democratic class-warfare dogma,” rise
above his partisan roots, and inhabit the political center “above and
between” the two parties — a concept Dick helpfully illustrated by
joining his thumbs and forefingers into the shape of a triangle. That
meant Clinton had to deliberately distance himself from his Democratic
allies, use them as a foil, pick fights with them. Combine these two
tactics with a “strong” foreign policy, a reasonably healthy economy,
and public advocacy of issues like school uniforms and curfews that
would demonstrate Clinton's commitment to “values,” Dick said, and
Clinton would win in 1996.

