# The Strange Case of Steven Donziger

Excerpts from [1,2]

The story began in 2011 when Donziger brought litigation against
Texaco (now Chevron) in Ecuador for the harm it caused the Indigenous
people in the Ecuadorian Amazon, where the fossil fuel company decided
to deliberately discharge 16 billion gallons of toxic waste from its
oil sites into rivers, groundwater, and farmland. A refusal from
Chevron to adhere to environmental regulations—which earned the
company an extra 5 billion dollas over 20 years—led to more than
30,000 Ecuadorians being directly harmed by the oil giant’s actions,
the judges in that case found. The case Donziger led made it all the
way to the Ecuador Supreme Court, and successfully secured $9.5
billion in environmental damages for the Amazonian communities in a
historic climate justice decision.

Chevron never paid those billions of cleanup dollars to Ecuador, and
instead launched a legal attack on Donziger in the Southern District
of New York, where Judge Lewis A. Kaplan found Donziger guilty of
bribery and fraud in a trial without a jury. Kaplan, a former
corporate lawyer, held financial investments in Chevron at the time of
the decision. When Kaplan required Donziger to turn in his computer,
phone, and other personal devices (including passwords) to the court
and thus to Chevron, and Donziger refused citing violations to
attorney-client privilege, Kaplan charged him with six counts of
criminal contempt under Rule 42. As required by that rule, Kaplan was
disqualified from hearing the ensuing contempt case, but not before
bypassing local rules and hand-selecting the judge and picking the
private prosecutors who would oversee the case. He chose District
Judge Loretta Preska, who has served on the advisory board of the
Federalist Society, a group to which Chevron has been a substantial
donor.

In a letter sent to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts at
the end of last month, Sens. Ed Markey and Sheldon Whitehouse brought
into question specifically the use of private prosecutors in the
contempt case against Donziger [1].

<a name='oct2021'/>

[Recently Donziger] has been sentenced to six months in federal prison
for “criminal contempt.” On October 1, in a lower Manhattan federal
courtroom, Judge Loretta Preska justified imposing the maximum penalty
by asserting that Donziger, now 60, had not shown contrition. She
said, “It seems that only the proverbial two-by-four between the eyes
will instill in him any respect for the law.”...

In May, Preska had found Donziger guilty after a trial without a
jury. And now Donziger, along with his family and scores of
supporters, had to listen to the federal judge compare him to a mule
who needed to be beaten with a piece of wood before complying.

References

[1] [Slate](https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2021/08/chevron-judge-loretta-preska-steven-donziger.html)

[2] [The Nation](https://www.thenation.com/article/environment/steven-donziger-chevron-sentencing)

