# The Entrepreneurial State

Mariana Mazucatto

Using its funding networks, DARPA increased the flow of knowledge
across competing research groups. It facilitated workshops for
researchers to gather and share ideas while also learning of the paths
identified as ‘dead ends’ by others. DARPA officers engaged in
business and technological brokering by linking university researchers
to entrepreneurs interested in starting a new firm; connecting
start-up firms with venture capitalists; finding a larger company to
commercialize the technology; or assisting in procuring a government
contract to support the commercialization process.

Pursuing this brokering function, DARPA officers not only developed
links among those involved in the network system, but also engaged in
efforts to expand the pool of scientists and engineers working in
specific areas. An example of this is the role DARPA played in the
1960s by funding the establishment of new computer science departments
at various universities in the US. By increasing the number of
researchers who possessed the necessary and particular expertise,
DARPA was able, over an extended period of time, to accelerate
technological change in this area. In the area of computer chip
fabrication during the 1970s, DARPA assumed the expenses associated
with getting a design into a prototype by funding a laboratory
affiliated with the University of Southern California. Anyone who
possessed a superior design for a new microchip could have the chips
fabricated at this laboratory, thus expanding the pool of participants
designing faster and better microchips.  The personal computer emerged
during this time with Apple introducing the first one in 1976.
Following this, the computer industry’s boom in Silicon Valley
and the key role of DARPA in the massive growth of personal computing
received significant attention, but has since been forgotten by those
who claim Silicon Valley is an example of ‘free market’ capitalism. In
a recent documentary, Something Ventured, Something Gained, for
example, the role of the State is not mentioned once in the 85 minutes
spent describing the development of Silicon Valley (Geller and
Goldfine 2012)...

[Characteristic] of the DARPA model: A series of relatively small
offices, often staffed with leading scientists and engineers, are
given considerable budget autonomy to support promising ideas. These
offices are proactive rather than reactive and work to set an agenda
for researchers in the field. The goal is to create a scientific
community with a presence in universities, the public sector and
corporations that focuses on specific technological challenges that
have to be overcome.

<a name='jobs'/>

Apple, Steve Jobs

Given the critical role of the State in enabling companies like Apple,
it is especially curious that the debate surrounding Apple’s tax
avoidance has failed to make this fact more broadly known. Apple must
pay tax not only because it is the right thing to do, but because it
is the epitome of a company that requires the public purse to be large
and risk-loving enough to continue making the investments that
entrepreneurs like Jobs will later capitalize on...

Steve Jobs talked ... in his charismatic 2005 Stanford lecture on the
need for innovators to stay ‘hungry and foolish’, few have admitted
how much such foolishness has been ‘seriously’ riding on the wave of
State-funded and -directed innovations.

The State... ‘foolishly’ developing innovations? Yes, most of the
radical, revolutionary innovations that have fuelled the dynamics of
capitalism – from railroads to the Internet, to modern-day
nanotechnology and pharmaceuticals – trace the most courageous, early
and capitalintensive ‘entrepreneurial’ investments back to the
State. And, .. all of the technologies that make Jobs’ iPhone so
‘smart’ were government funded (Internet, GPS, touch-screen display
and the recent SIRI voice activated personal assistant). Such radical
investments – which embedded extreme uncertainty – did not come about
due to the presence of venture capitalists, nor of ‘garage
tinkerers’. It was the visible hand of the State which made these
innovations happen. Innovation that would not have come about had we
waited for the ‘market’ and business to do it alone – or government to
simply stand aside and provide the basics...

<a name='corplabs'/>

A recent study by MIT claims that the current absence in the US of
corporate labs like Xerox PARC (which produced the graphical user
interface technology that led to both Apple’s and Windows’ operating
systems) and Bell Labs – both highly co-financed by government agency
budgets – is one of the reasons why the US innovation machine is under
threat (MIT 2013). [The study] has looked at the strengths and
weaknesses of the US innovation system and the causes of relative
decline of manufacturing in America. The study has strived to
understand why the development of promising innovations are stalling
or simply moving abroad before reaching commercial scale. One of the
reasons unveiled by the study is the fact that large R&D centres –
like Bell Labs, Xerox PARC and Alcoa Research Lab – have become a
thing of the past in big corporations; they have mostly
disappeared. Long-term basic and applied research is not part of the
strategy of ‘Big Business’ anymore, as corporate R&D now focuses on
short-term needs.

