# Mission Economy

Mariana Mazucatto

To carry out the Apollo mission, hundreds of complex problems had to
be solved. Some solutions worked, many failed. All came out of a close
partnership between government and business: a partnership with a
purpose.  It required an immense advancement in rocket
power. Innovation was also needed in relatively new sectors such as
electronics, navigation propulsion, life support, communications and
flight controller systems, and in older sectors like textiles,
materials and nutrition. But far from fearing failure, experimentation
and exploration were welcomed and stimulated through the use of
government tools and levers such as goal-oriented procurement policy.

Mission-oriented innovation involves both basic research and the
combining of existing technologies into new forms to achieve a
task. This, together with active project management and ambitious
timescales, accelerated innovation for the Apollo programme. The
mission itself could not have worked without a bedrock of invention
that pre-existed and had derived from curiosity-driven or blue-skies
science. Policies themselves were innovative, often providing
no-strings-attached funding to technical groups at various NASA
Centers and outside R&D contractors, along with broad guidance for
what they needed to produce. This allowed significant free- thinking
and innovative solutions to emerge, in contrast to a heavy-handed,
central authority dictating solutions to technical teams. In other
words, there was a strong underlying innovation system...

In 1958, the same year as NASA was founded, the US government also set
up DARPA, the innovation agency of the US Department of Defense – most
noted for its investment in what became ARPANET, today’s
internet. Both were results of Cold War investments. And, similarly to
NASA, DARPA’s key characteristics are its organizational
flexibility... The organization encourages bottom-up design, which
means that design is left to people like programme managers. They
allow discretion in project choice and offer active project
management. And indeed, without DARPA there would be no internet to
have fuelled the twenty-first-century innovations. Better
understanding the organizational structures that have encouraged
problem-solving, risk-taking and horizontal collaborations is thus key
to understanding the wave of future radical change.
