# The End of China’s Rise

M. Beckley, [Foreign Affairs](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2021-10-01/end-chinas-rise)


"China’s multidecade ascent was aided by strong tailwinds that have
now become headwinds. China’s government is concealing a serious
economic slowdown and sliding back into brittle totalitarianism. The
country is suffering severe resource scarcity ...

Welcome to the age of 'peak China.' .. Once-rising powers frequently
become aggressive when their fortunes fade and their enemies
multiply. China is tracing an arc that often ends in tragedy: a
dizzying rise followed by the specter of a hard fall...

[CH] enjoyed a mostly safe geopolitical environment and friendly
relations with the United States. For most of its modern history,
China’s vulnerable location at the hinge of Eurasia and the Pacific
had condemned it to conflict and hardship...

China is running out of resources. Half of its rivers have
disappeared, and pollution has left 60 percent of its groundwater—by
the government’s own admission—“unfit for human contact.” Breakneck
development has made it the world’s largest net energy importer...

As China has become more assertive and authoritarian, the world has
become less conducive to Chinese growth. Beijing has faced thousands
of new trade barriers since the 2008 financial crisis. Most of the
world’s largest economies are walling off their telecommunications
networks from Chinese influence. Australia, India, Japan, and other
countries are looking to cut China out of their supply chains...

The indications of [.. recent] unproductive growth are
ubiquitous. China has more than 50 ghost cities—urban centers with
highways and houses but not people. Almost two-thirds of China’s
infrastructure projects will never recoup the costs of their
construction. The result, unsurprisingly, is out-of-control debt...

Eurasia has often been a deathtrap for aspiring hegemons: there are
too many nearby enemies that can make common cause with offshore
superpowers. For almost 40 years, a rising China avoided strategic
encirclement by downplaying its global ambitions and maintaining
friendly relations with the United States. But that period is over..

China is a risen power, not a rising one: it has acquired formidable
geopolitical capabilities, but its best days are behind it"


