# The One Device

Book by Merchant

On paper, the logic looks impeccable: The iPod was Apple’s most
successful product, phones were going to eat the iPod’s lunch, so why
not an iPod phone? “Take the best of the iPod and put a phone in it,”
Fadell says.  “So you could do mobile communications and have your
music with you, and we didn’t lose all the brand awareness we’d built
into the iPod, the half a billion dollars we were spending getting
that known around the world.” It was that simple... while it was
becoming clear inside Apple that they were going to pursue a phone, it
wasn’t clear at all what that phone should look or feel like. Or how
it would work, on just about every level.

“We were gonna build what everyone thought we should build at the
time: Let’s bolt a phone onto an iPod,” says Andy Grignon. And that’s
exactly what they started to do...

“Steve called a big meeting in the boardroom,” Ording says. “Everyone
was there, Phil Schiller and Jony Ive and whoever.” He said,
“Listen. We’re going to change plans.... We’re going to do this
iPod-based thing, make that into a phone because that’s a much more
doable project. More predictable.” That was Fadell’s project. The
touchscreen effort wasn’t abandoned, but while the engineers worked on
whipping it into shape, Jobs directed Ording, Chaudhri, and members of
the UI team to design an interface for an iPod phone, a way o dial
numbers, select contacts, and browse the web using that device’s
tried-and-true click wheel.










