# The Rare Metals War

By Guillaume Pitron 

The biggest quantity of rare earths is extracted from the bowels of
Jiangxi, in the heart of tropical China, which is where our story
begins.

Wang Jing knows this better than anyone.. he spent years working at
this illegal mine concealed by a copse of eucalyptus trees. He tells
me how he would chip away at red-tinted rock and crush prodigious
rubble aggregates alongside other miners, both men and women...

‘It’s poison,’ says Wang Jing. ‘The chemicals used for refining the
minerals were poured straight into the ground.’ The sulphuric and
hydrochloric acids would pollute the nearby stream to the point that
‘it was impossible for any plant to grow’. Because the closest housing
lies far from the Yaxi mountains, there was no visible impact on
residents. But elsewhere, housing was much closer, he said.  The
10,000 or so mines spread across China have played a big role in
destroying the country’s environment. 20 Pollution damage by the
coal-mining industry is well documented. But barely reported is the
fact that mining rare metals also produces pollution, and to such an
extent that China has stopped counting contamination events..

Latin America has already started to experience similar problems with
lithium mining — a white metal lying below the salt flats of Bolivia,
Chile, and Argentine. It is considered critical by the US, and demand
is expected to soar on the back of the electric car boom that has
jacked up its global production. Naturally, Argentina has its sights
set on becoming the giant of lithium, and between now and 2025 the
country has the capacity to produce up to 165,000 tonnes a year, or 45
per cent of global demand, provided it can get foreign investors on
board.

In May 2017, all the rare metal exploration, mining, and refining
companies operating in Latin America met on the banks of Rio Plata near
Buenos Aires for the Arminera international mining trade fair...

[S]ome thirty Greenpeace activists had blocked the entrance to the
trade fair, brandishing banners calling out the lies of the mining
industry. ‘Everything they say is pure greenwashing,’ said one of its
members, Gonzalo Strano. ‘There’s no such thing as sustainable
mining. Not only does it dig out the ground by definition, it uses
chemicals and massive amounts of water, which is a problem.’...

<a name='ref1'/>

In 2006, some sixty companies producing indium — a rare metal used in
the manufacture of certain solar-panel technologies — released tonnes
of chemicals into the Xiang River in Hunan, jeopardising the
meridional province’s drinking water and the health of its
residents. In 2011, journalists reported on the damage to the
ecosystems of the Ting River in the seaside province of Fujian, due to
the operation of a mine rich in gallium — an up-and-coming metal for
the manufacture of energy-efficient light bulbs. And in Ganzhou, where
I landed, the local press recently reported that the toxic waste dumps
created by a mining company producing tungsten — a critical metal for
wind-turbine blades — had obstructed and polluted many tributaries of
the Yangtze River.

