# The Political Economy of US Militarism

2006, Hossein-Zadeh

In pursuit of their goal of establishing a Jewish state in the “land
of Israel,” Zionist leaders have always tried to portray their
interests as coinciding or synergetic with the interests of
[superpowers], first with those of Great Britain and then with those
of the United States. By the same token, they have also always tried
to portray opponents of their territorial ambitions not only as the
enemies of Israel but also of those powers. But, as just noted, such
attempts at manipulation were not very effective during the Cold War
atmosphere. In the aftermath of the Cold War era, however, those
strategies began to become more effective; not because Zionist
strategists suddenly became smarter, or U.S. policy makers suddenly
became more susceptible to Zionist influence, but because some
powerful interests in the United States, the military-industrial
interests, now converged more closely with those of hard-line Zionists
in instigating war and convulsion in the Middle East.

As noted earlier, the demise of the Soviet Union and the end of the
Cold War prompted calls in the United States for “peace dividends,”
that is, for the curtailment and conversion of part of the military
budget to civilian use. The idea behind demands for “peace dividends”
was simple: since in the aftermath of the collapse of the Soviet Union
the United States no longer needed the colossal military apparatus of
the Cold War era, part of the military budget could now safely be
reallocated toward civilian uses. Frightened by the specter of peace
and/or peace dividends, beneficiaries of military spending frantically
sought to invent and substitute “new threats” for the “communist
threat” of the Cold War era, thereby preempting the realization of
peace dividends.

In pursuit of this goal, beneficiaries of war and militarism found a
strong, well-established network of politically savvy allies: radical
Zionist proponents of “greater Israel.” Because the interests of these
two powerful groups converged over fomenting war and political
convulsion in the Middle East, an ominously potent alliance was forged
between them— ominous, because the mighty U.S. war machine was now
supplemented by the almost unrivaled public relations capabilities of
the hard-line pro-Israel lobby in the United States. The alliance is
unofficial and de facto; it is subtly forged through an elaborate
network of powerful militaristic think tanks such as the American
Enterprise Institute, Project for the New American Century, America
Israel Public Affairs Committee, Middle East Media Research Institute,
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, Middle East Forum, National
Institute for Public Policy, Jewish Institute for National Security
Affairs, and Center for Security Policy. The neoconservative
militarists in and around the Bush administration serve primarily the
interests of this alliance...

'After decades of ever-solidifying ties, Israel is now so closely
linked to the United States in concrete ways that it is actually a
part of the U.S. military-industrial complex. Israel sells military
equipment, with our knowledge, to countries to which the U.S. is
restricted by law from selling.. So many arms and types of arms are
produced in the U.S. for Israel that it has become quite easy for
Israel’s lobbyists in Washington to go to individual congressmen and
point out to them how many jobs in a given district depend on this
arms industry and on not withholding arms from Israel. In this way,
Israel becomes a direct factor in sustaining the
U.S. military-industrial complex, in maintaining jobs in the U.S., and
in keeping congressmen and other politicians in office'

The convergence and/or interdependence of the interests of the
military-industrial complex and those of militant Zionism on war and
political convulsion in the Middle East is at the heart of the
perpetual cycle of violence in the region: the more the powerful and
overlapping lobbies of the military-industrial-Zionist alliance
succeed in gearing the U.S. policy in the region to the radical
Zionist policies of Israeli leaders, the stronger and bolder Israel
becomes, and the more aggressive it will behave in pursuit of its
territorial aggrandizement, or in its treatment of the Palestinian
people... As the U.S./Israeli policies in the Middle East prompt the
frustrated Palestinians and their sympathizers elsewhere to violent
reactions, they also provide the U.S. and Israeli policy makers with
the pretext they need in order to justify their policies in the
region. Such violent reactions to the U.S. and Israeli policies will
also make the business of war.. more profitable...

Not surprisingly, soon after the collapse of the Berlin Wall,
representatives of the military-industrial-Likud alliance embarked on
a joint offensive against a whole host of long-established
international institutions and conventions, arms control treaties and,
most importantly, the Oslo peace negotiations between Palestinians and
Israelis. Instead of those long-established multilateral treaties and
conventions, they now called for aggressive American unilateralism,
along with an overhaul of the geopolitical landscape of the Middle
East in favor of Israel.

As noted above, the military-industrial-Likud interests promote their
views and carry out their plans through an extended but tightly knit
web of influential think tanks of militaristic lobbying entities. Some
of these lobbying think tanks and their major political players have
direct Israeli connections. For example, Colonel Yigal Carmon,
formerly of Israeli military intelligence, was a cofounder of the
Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI). The other cofounder of
MEMRI, Meyrav Wurmser, was a member of the Hudson Institute, while her
husband, David Wurmser, headed the Middle East Studies Department of
the American Enterprise Institute. Richard Perle, a major player in
the neoconservative movement, was both a “resident fellow” at the
American Enterprise Institute and a trustee of the Hudson Institute.
Focusing on two of these influential think tanks, the Jewish Institute
for National Security Affairs (JINSA) and Center for Security Policy
(CSP), Jason Vest of The Nation magazine convincingly unmasked “the
close links among the two organizations, right-wing politicians, arms
merchants, military men, Jewish billionaires, and Republican
administrations.”
