# The Shadow World

2011, Andrew Feinstein

Global military expenditure is estimated to have totalled 1.6tn
dollars in 2010, 235 for every person on the planet. This is an
increase of 53 per cent since 2000 and accounts for 2.6 per cent of
global gross domestic product. Today, the United States spends almost
a trillion dollars a year on national security with a defence budget
of over 703bn. The trade in conventional arms, both big and small, is
worth about $60bn a year...

Within a year of George W. Bush assuming the presidency, over thirty
arms industry executives, consultants and lobbyists occupied senior
positions in his administration. Half a dozen senior executives from
Lockheed Martin alone were given crucial appointments in the Bush
government during 2001. By the end of that year the Pentagon had
awarded the company one of the biggest military contracts in US
history.

Dick Cheney had served George W. Bush’s father as Secretary of Defense
before becoming CEO of Halliburton. During his tenure as Vice
President under Bush junior, Cheney’s former company garnered over
$6bn in contracts from the Department of Defense. Its oil-related
contracts in Iraq trebled that number. Cheney still held stock in the
company and left office a very wealthy man. Too little has changed
under the Obama administration...

But it is not just the contracts. It is also the pernicious influence
that this complex has on all aspects of governance, including economic
and foreign policy and decisions to go to war. This unease is
intensified because a large part of what it does is not open to
scrutiny by law makers, the judiciary, the media or civil society
watchdogs.

The arms industry and its powerful political friends have forged a
parallel political universe that largely insulates itself against the
influence or judgement of others by invoking national security. This
is the shadow world.




