# Efficiency Is Killing Our Jobs

Dyske Suematsu paper

The majority of wealth is now concentrated at the top of the social
ladder. This is particularly true in the US, and the gap is widening
every year. This, I believe, is because of efficiency, not
China. Today the best ideas can efficiently and quickly propagate
worldwide, and everyone can efficiently find them and buy them. This
makes the owners of these ideas filthy rich, and those ideas that are
not the best, can hardly survive. It’s not just transfer of
information that is fast; wealth too is transferred very fast and
efficiently.

Imagine in the future where we have something like Star Trek’s
transporter which would allow us to serve freshly cooked meals to
anyone around the world. The efficiency of such a device would
probably kill local restaurants that are not the best. The efficiency
of the kitchen equipment in the future would allow one chef to serve
millions of diners a day. We would probably need just a few chefs per
each cuisine in the whole world. The reason why many chefs still have
their jobs is because the world isn’t that efficient yet. In other
industries, many people have already lost their jobs because of the
efficiency that invaded their fields [..].

Think of journalists. Many are losing their jobs. Newspapers are
barely surviving. In the old days, for every news event, there were
probably hundreds of journalists writing about the same story for
their own local newspapers. Now, because of the efficiency of the
Internet and search engines, a few journalists writing about it would
suffice for the whole country [..].

Corporations are increasingly getting bigger (in terms of market
caps), more global, and more powerful, yet they are getting smaller
and smaller in terms of the number of people they employ, because they
have mastered the art of efficiency [..].

We live in the age where we make a living by doing things more
efficiently than others. We blame other countries like China for
taking our jobs but we are all doing it ourselves. When you learn how
to use computer programs like Excel, Word, and Photoshop, you are
eliminating other people’s jobs. What used to require a team of people
to produce, you now can do it all by yourself using these programs. In
other words, you are profiting from the loss of other people’s
jobs. That’s how we survive in today’s world. We struggle every day to
avoid being the one whose job is eliminated by the efficiency of
someone else.

