# Project Selection

J. Stiglitz paper

[..] Pluralism and competition, often associated with openness, are
vital to innovation and the growth of knowledge. The structure of
economic and political institutions powerfully affect which ideas,
innovations, or projects are selected to be financed and implemented
[..]

Some years ago, I explored one aspect of this, in contrasting two
opposing extremes in project selection: a hierarchical system, where a
proposal must pass a series of hurdles to be accepted, or a
decentralized system of alternative decision centers, where a proposal
can be accepted by any one of them (and can get a second chance if
turned down). The hierarchical system would tend to err on the side of
rejecting many good projects while the decentralized system would err
on the side of accepting many bad projects. The advisability of the
two systems (and various mixtures) would depend on the relative cost
of accepting a project that turns out to be bad versus the opportunity
cost of rejecting a project that turned out to be good. The
hierarchical system would be best for a decision where accepting a bad
project might be fatalâ€“as in the decision to go to war. But where
accepted bad projects are not fatal and only expend resources, the
clear verdict of history is in favor of a more decentralized system of
pluralistic political or economic units.

In a decentralized system, decision-makers compete against one another
to find good projects. With centralized or monopoly project selection,
there is no fear that a rejected innovation will be adopted by a
competitor and an accepted innovation might have an uncertain effect
on the monopoly. Thus hierarchical centralization has been a recipe
for uniform and essentially static societies from ancient Egypt to the
Soviet Union. In contrast, Columbus was turned down by the King of
Portugal and two Spanish dukes before submitting his proposal to
Ferdinand and Isabella. After a four year wait, he was again turned
down, but the decision was reversed two years later in 1492. In this
manner, the pluralistic and competing channels of selection foster
innovation.

