# Rewind patent laws to fast-forward innovation

Darin Gibby article

The patent market, like financial markets, thrives on certainty. When
inventors are sure their products will be protected, more people
invest in patents and, more importantly, in the technologies they
protect. But when patents cannot be understood, are difficult to
obtain, or become nearly impossible to enforce, much of the money that
would go toward research and development is spent on lawyers. These
legal fees drastically increase the barriers to investment for a
promising new idea, dulling America’s technological edge. The modern
trend of bundling patents into large portfolios for sale on the open
market further demonstrates how the patent market currently favors
large corporations over the individual entrepreneur.

As a patent attorney, I am constantly meeting hopeful inventors who
dream of securing a patent to protect their ideas. They have been told
by potential investors that they need a patent before they are willing
to invest in their technology. When I explain that a patent will cost
upwards of $30,000 and take around five years to obtain, their hopes
are dashed. The news only gets worse when I inform them that enforcing
a patent is a multi-million dollar proposition. At that point, most
simply give up.

In an effort to remedy this problem, President Barack Obama signed
into law the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA) on Sept. 16, under
the auspices that it would “speed up the patent process so that
innovators and entrepreneurs can turn a new invention into a business
as quickly as possible.” This law, in fact, does the opposite.
