# Cost Gravity

[Pieter Hintjens](http://github.com/hintjens/swsi/en)

For fifty years, Moore's Law has reliably predicted the exponential
upward trend of our silicon future. Yet every now and then, technology
tabloids warn that Moore's Law is about to end. It can't last, we're
told, and when it ends, the future will fall into darkness and
uncertainty. But inevitably and without fail, scientists find yet
another way to extend it, and we collectively sigh in relief. Moore's
Law isn't a mythical beast that magically materialized in 1965 and
threatens to unpredictably vanish at any moment. In fact, it's part of
a broader ancient mechanism that has no intention of stopping. This
mechanism, which I call cost gravity, pulls down the price of
technology by about half every two years [..].

What Happened to Wall Street? [..]

Let's rewind 30 years and see how the banks work. We're in 1980, and 
banks are the shining cornerstones of modern society. They are large, 
boring financial machine houses. The banks arbitrate between those who 
have money and those who need it, a vital service for which people 
gladly pay. Critically, this service takes vast amounts of computing 
power. Simply adding and subtracting and multiplying and dividing all 
those figures takes industrial-strength brute force. Banks have huge 
data centers: rows of blinking mainframes and humming disk drives, all 
adding up to tons of heavy metal in massive air-conditioned halls.

Meanwhile -- silent and unstoppable -- the spread of knowledge drives
 down the cost of computers. First, smaller and cheaper minicomputers 
spread into departments. Then the personal computer explodes into the 
home, university, and business. Large firms like IBM try to keep their 
prices stable, meaning they give their customers more and more computing
 power for the same price. The true cost of building a bank-sized data 
center drops by 50% every two years. The result is that older banks 
start to face competition from small aggressive competitors, especially 
as the Internet begins to make the front-office branch obsolete. The big
 banks grow by buying smaller local banks, an easy task due to the fact 
that they possess lots of excess capacity. Then, they cut costs by 
shutting branches and merge with insurance companies in order to expand 
their services.

But all the while, competition is driving down profit margins. If 
your bank asked 5% per year for a mortgage, and another 1,000 km away 
offered 4%, you would not hesitate to go with the lower rate. Similarly,
 if your bank offered 3% interest on savings, but a foreign competitor 
offers 6%, where would you put your money? For years, in Europe, you 
could literally earn 2-3% more on deposits than you had to pay on a 
mortgage. This should have been a clear sign of trouble, but people just
 assumed there was some magic at play.

Fast-forward a few more years, and banks' main traditional markets 
are close to worthless. The European single market means they face ever 
more competition. But they're in a trap, borrowing money from the stock 
markets in order to expand internationally so that they can compete. 
It's a one-way trip. If you don't make your quarterly profits, your 
stock price will fall and your cost of borrowing will rise. The only 
banks that escape are those who stuck to luxury products for the richest
 clients and avoided the stock markets.

The large banks must find ways to continue to make their 6% 
profit annually. And higher profits come only from higher risks; there 
is no other route. So governments oblige by removing regulations, and 
banks get new high-risk space to move into. They push mortgages onto 
people who cannot afford them. They push credit cards so aggressively 
that even a dog can get one. And as they accumulate more and more risk, 
they hide it from view by repackaging it all into derivatives, which 
they sell to foreign banks. Eventually, the trade in derivatives becomes
 the new territory and banks turn into bookmakers, betting against 
themselves and taking a commission on each deal.

Meanwhile, cost gravity never stops. By 2013, the cost of running a 
1980's bank had fallen by 128,000 times. If it cost $10 per month to 
handle one customer in 1980, by 2013 it cost just over $75 per month for
 1M customers. And by 2052, it will cost only $1 per month to handle the
 banking needs of every person on Earth.

The collapse happened because those ever-riskier bets didn't pay off.
 It was predictable [..] but there was a huge incentive for those 
involved to not think it through. You may feel it was criminally stupid 
to make those bets. Certainly, it was immoral to have the public purse 
pay the debt while still giving bonuses to all involved. As I write 
this, not a single prosecution has been brought against anyone involved 
in the collapse. In the end, every empire bets on borrowed time. It's 
always the same, whether the timescale is "next quarter" or "next 
century." Bank or beggar, life is always "so far, so good."

When we understand that cost gravity caused the banking crash, we can
 try to predict the future of banking. Banking is an essential service, 
but it cannot be profitable except by rolling back time and banning 
cheap information technology, or by creating artificial barriers to 
competition.

There seem to be two plausible outcomes. One is to nationalize the 
large banks and turn banking and insurance into a not-for-profit service
 of the state. The other is to grant the major banks a monopoly control 
over the market, so they can extract profits as before. Europe seems to 
be going the first way. For example, a Belgian state bank, ASLK, was 
privatized in the early 1990's. Roughly 20 years later, its 
multinational successor, Dexia, was nationalized to save it from 
bankruptcy.

The USA seems to be heading the other way, matching the way it treats
 other sectors like the mobile phone industry. Profits are more 
important than competition, it seems. Canada takes a middle path, 
granting monopolies to its banks but regulating how much profit they can
 charge.








at

December 18, 2013















