# Revolutionary Wealth

From Toffler's book

<a name='globalization'></a>

Re-Globalization

In 1900 the turn of a new century was celebrated in Paris with a Grand
Exhibition devoted to progress, and the newspaper *Le Figaro*, barely
able to contain itself, crowed: “How fortunate we are to be living on
this first day of the 20th century!” One source of enthusiasm was the
world’s advance, as the rich nations saw it, toward global economic
integration—a rational process that, by changing spatial and political
relationships, would make economies flourish.  Sounding much like the
true believers in economic globalization today, economists spoke
enthusiastically of how more and more of the world was being stitched
or bolted together... Within fourteen years of the Grand Exhibition,
the “stitches” or “bolts” broke and the slaughter of World War I
violently disrupted flows of trade and capital...

In the post–World War II years, America, its industrial base intact
and, if anything, strengthened by the war, needed export markets for
its goods and, above all, its capital. The world was hungry for
American products, often the only products available.  Moreover,
advancing technology made it cheaper and easier to serve
larger-than-national markets. Thus, convinced that global economic
reintegration would serve their own purposes while generally advancing
world economic growth, American elites undertook to create
cross-border markets through which goods, capital, information and
skills could once more flow with minimal friction. This, then, took on
the form of an ideological crusade for re-globalization...

Because the economic integration today is far more dense, multilayered
and complicated, linking so many diverse economies at so many
different levels, it requires systematically designed fail-safes,
redundancies and other safety devices. Unfortunately, overenthusiastic
re-globalizers are constructing a gigantic financial cruise ship
lacking the watertight compartments that even Titanic had...

Org Innovation

IBM, Kodak and the NYPD are all large old organizations. But
preventing the oncoming implosion requires more than changing in-place
institutions It also necessitates creating new types of companies,
organizations and institutions, large and small, at every level of
society. And that calls for social inventors prepared to face
inadequate resources, rivalry, suspicion, cynicism and just plain
[idioacy].

Daunting as all that sounds, it helps to remember that none of today's
familiar institutions—not IBM, not Kodak, not the United Nations, not
the IMF not police forces or post offices-- dropped full-blown out of
the heavens.

All our institutions, from central banks to blood banks, factories to
fire-houses, art museums to airports were in fact originally conceived
by business innovators and social inventors who faced far more
entrenched resistance to change than we find in the advanced economies
today. And many of their innovations in business and society have been
at least as important as those in technology.

We know the names of many of history‘s great technological innovators -
Savery and Newcomen and the steam engine, Whitney and the cotton
gin, Edison and electric lighting, Morse and the telegraph, Daguere
and photography, Marconi and the radio, Bell and the telephone. And we
justly celebrate their immense contributions.

Unfortunately -few other than specialists and historians, if indeed
they- can name the social inventor who first came up with the concept
of a limited-liability corporation. Or the person who wrote it into
Gesellschaft mit bescrankter Haftung, the 1892 German law that was the
first to embody it. Can anyone imagine what today's world economy and
financial system would look like minus limited liability for
investors? Was that any less achievement than, say, the telegraph?

<a name='intangible'></a>

The Intangible in the Tangible

Property is the place to start because property is the origin of the
capital on which capitalism itself is based. And both are now morphing
into something new and strange.  Property has often been described, as
it still is in one leading English-language dictionary, as “a thing or
things belonging to someone.” But dictionaries can be wrong, and
property never was just a thing or things.  In his groundbreaking book
The Mystery of Capital, the brilliant Peruvian economist Hernando de
Soto has shown that no matter how thing-like or tangible, property has
always had an intangible aspect as well.

A house, a car or a camera isn’t property if it is unprotected by laws
and social norms, and if anyone can snatch it away from you at any
time and use it for any purpose. In capital-rich countries there is,
in addition to protected legal rights and rules of ownership, an
immense system in place that helps convert property to investable
capital, which, in turn, stimulates economic development and wealth
creation.  This system consists of a vast, ever-changing knowledge
base that lists who owns what, tracks transactions, helps hold people
accountable for contracts, provides credit information and is
integrated nationally so that users are not limited to doing business
locally. This adds to the value of property. No such highly developed
information systems are found in capital-poor countries, according to
de Soto.

It is, in short, the intangible aspects—not just the physical aspects
alone—that define property and give it value.
