# GE Unleashing a Hydrogen Gas Power Future

But as questions about the long-term use of natural gas—a fossil
fuel—in a carbon-free energy ecosystem emerge, the company is building
on years of experience exploring how GE gas turbine technology could
run on hydrogen fuels, as Dr. Jeffrey Goldmeer, director of Gas
Turbine Combustion & Fuels Solutions for GE Power—and GE’s topmost
hydrogen expert—told POWER in an interview this month [..].

POWER: How did you become involved in hydrogen?

Goldmeer: I’ve been in my current role as the fuel-flex leader for the
gas turbine business for 12 years. I came to GE Power out of GE Global
Research Center, where I worked in combustion for six years, and for
the last three years at the R&D center, I actually managed the
combustion team there. My background is in combustion and fuels, my
PhD is in combustion. So I’ve been doing combustion and/or fuels in
one way or another for my entire career [..].

We have [several GE gas turbine modes, including] 6Bs, 7Es, 6Fs, 7Fs
that are working in this space with fuels that have hydrogen today,
whether it’s an [integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC)] plant
or a refinery. We actually have a 6B that’s running in Asia on a fuel
that somewhere between 70% and 95% hydrogen—it varies. We’ve installed
over 70 to 75 gas turbines burning low-Btu fuels that contain
hydrogen, and those turbines combined have over 4 to 4.5 million
operating hours. There are other fuel categories that mimic, from a
heating value perspective, hydrogen and natural gas blends, and if I
throw those turbines in then we have something like 6 million
operating hours. And so part of our experience comes from actually
having been doing this for decades.

Our first gas turbine working in an IGCC project, if I recall
correctly, it was the late 1980s. So, we’ve been doing this for 30
years. Part of this is continuing to take lessons from the industrial
sector for these fuels and applying them to this large-scale utility
side. So we continue to learn about what it means to be working with
fuels that have hydrogen. And a lot of these lessons are things around
the plant. How do you modify a natural gas plant to run with fuels
that have hydrogen?

We have to think about [balance of plant], safety systems,
accessories, all these things. It’s not just the gas turbine. We have
to think about the entire gas turbine combined cycle—the whole plant,
anything that the fuel touches, any auxiliary systems that could
potentially be impacted. But that’s also combustion technology. And so
we’ve been doing development of combustion technology for, for fuel
flexibility as a whole, again, for decades. It’s not just hydrogen. We
focus on a whole realm of fuel flexibility, whether it be heavy
liquids and crude oils for the Middle East, whether it’s naphtha and
condensates—the whole gamut.

But when it comes to hydrogen, specifically, we can roll the clock
back about 15 years, 16 years or so. Going back to that time period,
the U.S. Department of Energy was thinking that coal was going to
become a dominant supplier of fuel for the U.S. It was, at the time,
but it would become more so with gas prices going up. And so they
created what was known as the High Hydrogen Turbine Program. GE
applied for and received funding for that program to develop gas
turbine technology, specifically combustion technology, to increase
the efficiency of the gas turbine when operating on a high-hydrogen
fuel. The thought process behind that was that if IGCC was going to
become the dominant provider of power in the future, displacing gas
plants, that carbon capture might be something that we need to deal
with. But obviously adding up post-combustion carbon capture system
onto a power plant decreases the efficiency of the plant. So the DOE
was trying to understand how could you increase the efficiency of the
plant, and therefore a huge driver would be the efficiency of the gas
turbine. So that’s how it evolved. In retrospect, it’s really funny to
see how 15 years ago we thought coal would be the dominant fossil
fuel, and here we are today where coal is in a very different place
than it was 15 years ago.

So the team was looking at architectures that dealt with those
characteristics of hydrogen. We took that from the combustion lab at
the R&D center—I actually was the manager at the time we were doing
single-nozzle testing—took that to our facility in Greenville, South
Carolina, where we eventually tested a full combustion chamber. The
combustion technology had a lot of advantages [..]

Now as customers are saying to us, ‘Hey, we’re interested in
utility-scale power generation, we’re thinking about HA class
turbines, but we are worried about what happens in a potential future
where we have to run with hydrogen.’ And the great thing is because
that combustion system had its genesis in this DOE high-hydrogen
program, it carries some of that capability with it. In the
laboratory, we’ve already demonstrated that combustion system [can]
run up to 50% hydrogen blended with natural gas.

Let’s start fundamentally with the differences between hydrogen and
natural gas. Physically, hydrogen is a smaller molecule, so we have to
worry about hydrogen leaks where normal fittings and seals at certain
levels, where we wouldn’t leak with natural gas. Hydrogen is much more
flammable than natural gas or methane. Methane’s lower flammability
limit is about 7% by volume and goes up to 20%. Hydrogen starts at
about 4% on the lower flammability [scale] and goes up to about
75%. So, hydrogen is much more flammable. If you have a leak of
hydrogen, it becomes more dangerous. Hydrogen flames are harder to see
with the naked eye than a flame with a traditional hydrocarbon. And so
immediately, when we begin to think about the implications of running
hydrogen on a gas turbine, before we even talk about combustion
challenges, we need to think about fundamental safety issues [..]

You can’t use a standard fuel nozzle because you can’t pass all that
hydrogen through it three times the flow. So you have to modify fuel
nozzles in order to be able to flow that much. From a combustive
perspective, hydrogen is incredibly reactive. One metric around
reactivity of a fuel is the flame speed. You know, how fast that flame
wants to propagate into the unburned fuel. And that’s always something
that from a combustion design perspective you’re aware of so that you
can maintain a margin to flame-holding and flashback issues. Hydrogen
has got a flame speed that, depending on the study you look at, is
about an order of magnitude faster than methane. So that hydrogen
flame will want to propagate upstream into the unburned fuel much
faster. So you have to have a combustion system that is explicitly
configured to deal with that issue. That’s why, to burn 60, 70, 80, to
100% hydrogen in a combustion system is a real challenge. How do you
deal with the fact that the flame wants to go someplace that, as a
design engineer, you don’t want the flame to be?

But that being said, when you can master all of those challenges,
hydrogen is a clean-burning fuel—it doesn’t carry any carbon with
it—so that’s a positive [..]

----

GE has some fantastic know-how around combustion engines using hydrogen.

[1] https://www.powermag.com/the-power-interview-ge-unleashing-a-hydrogen-gas-power-future/
