# Hope for Jaded Green Investors 

[Financial Times](https://www.ft.com/content/acd3d02e-7a39-3db3-914e-aae95c39f0ff?segmentid=acee4131-99c2-09d3-a635-873e61754ec6)

For several years, people I would not usually consider religious have
displayed a simple, childlike faith in electric batteries, and
miraculous battery “breakthroughs” that would make a green economy
possible. The breakthrough batteries would redeem the European auto
industry after the shame of Dieselgate. They would store wind and
solar power so cheaply that fossil fuel would die of embarrassment and
bankruptcy. Oil and gas owned by oligarchs and Trump voters would be
left in the ground.

Time, calculation, map-consulting and reflection have created some
doubts about the all-electric renewable economy. To begin with,
replacing fossil fuel by moving renewables-generated energy around the
electricity grid and using it to power vehicles has some inherent
problems. You would use an awful lot of metals such as copper, nickel
and cobalt that need to be mined on a much larger scale, with
long-term commitments, at great expense. The metals would often come
from places with, let us say, governance issues.

Lithium ion batteries have been great for low-powered consumer
products, but further improvements in their energy density, efficiency
and safety are coming more slowly as the technology has been tweaked,
re-tweaked and matured. Their short discharge times and relatively
limited useful lives reduce their utility for grid storage or powering
vehicles.

Also, in jumping to a renewables-wires-batteries economy you would be
junking a huge amount of industrial and transport assets built up over
the decades based on the assumption there would be liquid or gaseous
fuel to burn. If there were some way to repurpose that plant in a
climate-friendly manner, that would be easier than rebuilding advanced
economies from scratch, no?

Storing energy

That is why some energy technology people and strategic investors are
fiddling with liquid organic hydrogen carriers (LOHCs).
