# The ‘Busy’ Trap

Almost everyone I know is busy. They feel anxious and guilty when they
aren’t either working or doing something to promote their work. [..] I
recently wrote a friend to ask if he wanted to do something this week,
and he answered that he didn’t have a lot of time but if something was
going on to let him know and maybe he could ditch work for a few
hours. I wanted to clarify that my question had not been a preliminary
heads-up to some future invitation; this was the invitation. But his
busyness was like some vast churning noise through which he was
shouting out at me, and I gave up trying to shout back over it [..].

The present hysteria is not a necessary or inevitable condition of
 life; it’s something we’ve chosen, if only by our acquiescence to
 it. Not long ago I  Skyped with a friend who was driven out of the
 city by high rent and now has an artist’s residency in a small town
 in the south of France. She described herself as happy and relaxed
 for the first time in years. She still gets her work done, but it
 doesn’t consume her entire day and brain. She says it feels like
 college — she has a big circle of friends who all go out to the cafe
 together every night. She has a boyfriend again. (She once ruefully
 summarized dating in New York: “Everyone’s too busy and everyone
 thinks they can do better.”) What she had mistakenly assumed was her
 personality — driven, cranky, anxious and sad — turned out to be a
 deformative effect of her environment. It’s not as if any of us wants
 to live like this, any more than any one person wants to be part of a
 traffic jam or stadium trampling or the hierarchy of cruelty in high
 school — it’s something we collectively force one another to do.

Busyness serves as a kind of existential reassurance, a hedge against
emptiness; obviously your life cannot possibly be silly or trivial or
meaningless if you are so busy, completely booked, in demand every
hour of the day. I once knew a woman who interned at a magazine where
she wasn’t allowed to take lunch hours out, lest she be urgently
needed for some reason. This was an entertainment magazine whose
raison d’être was obviated when “menu” buttons appeared on remotes, so
it’s hard to see this pretense of indispensability as anything other
than a form of institutional self-delusion. More and more people in
this country no longer make or do anything tangible; if your job
wasn’t performed by a cat or a boa constrictor in a Richard Scarry
book I’m not sure I believe it’s necessary. I can’t help but wonder
whether all this histrionic exhaustion isn’t a way of covering up the
fact that most of what we do doesn’t matter.

