# Bedazzled by Tech

This post started with @internetofshit commenting on an NYT article
titled "The Tech That Might Help Cyclists and Cars Coexist Safely',
the comment was "i promise you it's not more tech in cars that'll make
things safer for cyclists. it's ... fewer cars". I realized there is
an entire style of writing that can be summed up as "technobabbling
centrism", or "pastime of the globalist moderate cuck".

Tech is nice, it is shiny; but slapping it onto everything, does not
always work. In its extreme, the solutionist turns into a person with
a hammer, eveything looks like a nail. Surely this slant of worldview
had a certain pull on Dems, as with everyone else, first due to its
shiny effect, but also from another direction, on its
politicians.. Politics, as a job, is mainly knowledge work. It deals
with information, decision, having to adjust to an existing canon (the
law).. All that cld pull them towards financiers, Silicon Valley
honchos, etc.

Technical knowledge is good of course, we want technically aware
lawmakers, like LBJ was in his heyday (the Apollo Moon program was his
idea), but if this turns into a *class conciousness*, we have a big
problem. Low income ppl lose representation, and Dems lose power bcz
white collar, aflluent folk, forming a mere 20% + concentrated in big
cities, cannot be of help in deciding most elections.

The position of this site is tech, knowledge work will ultimately
usher in a new era, called the Third Wave. But if 3W ppl are
influential, a potential problem is that in the current half-assed
development of it, the needs of this crowd not connecting with the
general population; White collar ppl have skills, are on demand. Lots
of my past / present collegues / coworkers are like this, tech
talented, so they are always employed. Then who cares if healthcare is
tied to your job? They always have a job!

To repeat 3W development is nowhere near complete. Its arrival is
choppy, representation in terms of people power not too high.

The pull towards conflating tech with other areas can be
tempting... I've seen examples of this over the years. Take
globalization for instance; it has nothing to do with tech (last
century's industrial tech was enough for them to bang on about
globalization just like today's lost souls) yet half-brained
commentators kept doing this all throughout the 90s. Toffler for one
didn’t care much about it, nor did the care about the latest gizmo of
the day. His worries were larger.

Bright-shiny-object-ism is also used, very adaptly, by corporate
Democrats, to deflect from econ issues along with 4G
(Guns-Gays-God-Green). The single-party apparatus requires such
smoke-and-mirrors in order to generate the presence of disagrement,
while aggreeing pretty much on everything else. Don't have healtcare?
Well “dynamic price discovery, Moore’s law, synergy between hardware
and software blah blah”. There. You have your answer [the questioner
looks on blankly, not understanding a word, and still without
healthcare].

<a name='oilwater'/>

Third Wave tech can overwhelm Second Wave institutions. IMO to provide
some sort of sanity before the ultimate shift, politicians need to cut
off the extra noise, work extra hard to do that, otherwise the central
institutions will be bombarded. Remove even the smallest direct
democracy practices, along with referandums, making the whole process
to go through representatives. Remember the California recall election
circus?

The waves are like oil and water. They cannot mix. Until the shift,
industrial democracy needs to proceed within its limits and its proven
tools.

I leave you with the satirical image of the TV show The West Wing done
by Seth Meyers, depicting the state of technobabbling dipshittery,
looking good but delivering nothing.

<img width="340" src="https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=14Fl6uV19HHddajmfakTs2RfRXutp_2l4"/>

