# The Next Decade

G. Friedman

Germany

History had placed Germany on the north of the North European Plain,
an area with a few rivers to serve as defenses, but some of the most
productive parts of this new nation-state were on the opposite bank of
the Rhine, completely unprotected. To the west was France. To the east
was Russia. Both had enjoyed the centuries when Germany was fragmented
and weak, but now there was a frightening new Germany, economically
the most dynamic country in Europe, with a powerful military and with
a deep sense of insecurity.

Germany in turn was frightened by its neighbors’ fears. Germany’s
leaders knew their nation could not survive if it was attacked
simultaneously by France and Russia. They also believed that at some
point such an attack would come, because they understood how
intimidating they appeared to their neighbors. Germany could not
permit France and Russia to start a war at the time or place of their
choosing, and thus Germany, driven by its own fear, devised a strategy
of preemption coupled with alliances.

Europe in the twentieth century was defined by these fears, which,
being imposed by geography, were both rational and unavoidable [..]

Both world wars were launched according to a single scenario: Germany,
insecure because of its geographical position, swept across France in
a lightning attack. The goal in both cases was to defeat France
quickly, then deal with Russia. In 1914, the Germans failed to defeat
France quickly, the troops dug in, and the conflict became a
protracted war. The Germans found themselves fighting France, Britain,
and Russia simultaneously in both the east and the west. ...

Poland

The Poles have suffered in direct relation to the strategic importance
of their location, bordering both Germany and Russia and occupying the
North European Plain, which extends like a thoroughfare from the
French Atlantic coast to St. Petersburg. The other eastern European
countries share the Polish view, but they are geographically safer,
behind the Carpathian Mountains.

Exposed on either side, Poland will have little choice but to go along
with whatever the Germans and Russians decide, which would be
disastrous for the United States. It is therefore in the American
interest to guarantee Poland’s independence from Russia and Germany,
not only formally but by creating a viable and vibrant Polish economy
and military that can serve as the model and driver for the rest of
eastern Europe. Poland is the historical bone in the throat of both
Germany and Russia, and it is in the American interest to make sure
that it is firmly lodged there. A Poland aligned with Germany is a
threat to Russia, and the reverse is true as well. Poland must remain
a threat to both, because the United States cannot let either feel too
secure.

Over the next ten years, an American relationship with Poland would
serve two functions: it might prevent or limit the Russo-German
entente, but failing that, it could create a counterbalance. The
United States urgently needs Poland, because there is no alternative
strategy for balancing an alliance between Russia and Germany.

<a name='australia'/>

Australia

Australia is actually quite dependent on international trade .. These
goods are shipped by sea, and Australia has no control whatever over
the security of its sea-lanes. In a sense, then, Australia is like a
creature whose arteries and veins are located outside its body,
unprotected and constantly at risk.  Australia’s strategy for dealing
with this vulnerability has been to ally itself with the dominant
naval power in the western Pacific—once Britain, now the United
States. All alliances bear costs, and the British and Americans wanted
the same quid pro quo: Australia’s participation in their
wars. Australians sacrificed heavily in the Boer War, both world wars,
and in Korea and Vietnam. Between 1970 and 1990 the Australians pulled
back from this role as military partner, but during this period there
were few calls for their participation. In 1990, in Desert Storm, they
returned to their strategy of assisting in military operations, and
they then went on to fight in both Afghanistan and Iraq.

Along with the security of sea-lanes, Australia’s well-being depends
on an international trading regime that allows terms it can
manage. Australia’s strategy of being of service to its Anglo-American
cousins has bought it a seat at the table alongside the great
powers. This has provided influence and security to its trade,
something that Australia never could have achieved on its own.

During World War II, Australia served Britain by sending troops to
North Africa. It served the United States by acting as a depot for
building up U.S.  forces for the Pacific theater. Certainly Australian
forces fought as well, but if no forces had been available,
Australia’s tremendous value was its location, behind the geographic
shield of Indonesia and New Guinea. Should any great power emerge in
the western Pacific to challenge the United States, Australia will
once again be the strategic foundation for America’s Pacific
strategy. The caveat is that building the infrastructure for a rear
depot took several years in World War II, and any future conflict
might not allow that kind of lead time.

The Middle East

[T]he Ottomans, who had allied with Germany, were defeated in World
War I. To the victors went the spoils, which included the extensive
Ottoman province known as Syria. A secret wartime deal between the
British and the French, the Sykes-Picot agreement, had divided this
territory between the two allies on a line running roughly from Mount
Hermon due west to the sea. The area to the north was to be placed
under French control; the area to the south was to be placed under the
control of the British. Further divisions gave rise not only to the
modern country of Syria but to Lebanon, Jordan, and Israel as well.

<a name="lebanon"/>

The French had sought to be an influence in this region since the days
of Napoleon. [..] As a state, then, Lebanon had no prior reality. Its
main unifying feature was that its people felt an affinity with
France. The British area to the south was divided along similarly
arbitrary lines. During World War I, the Muslim clan that ruled the
western Hejaz region of the Arabian Peninsula, the Hashemites [today's
Jordanians], had supported the British. In return, the British
promised to install this group as rulers of Arabia after the war. But
London made commitments to other tribes as well. Based in Kuwait, a
rival clan, the Saud, had launched a war against [Otto] in 1900,
trying to take control of the eastern and central parts of the Arabian
Peninsula. In a struggle that broke out shortly after World War I, the
Sauds defeated the Hashemites, so the British gave Arabia to
them—hence today’s Saudi Arabia.

The Hashemites received the consolation prize of Iraq, where they
ruled until 1958, when they were overthrown in a military coup
supported the British. [.. They]  were moved to an area to the north
along the eastern bank of the Jordan River. Centered on the town of
Amman and lacking any other obvious identity, this new protectorate
became known as Trans-Jordan, as in “the other side of the Jordan
River.” After the British withdrew in 1948, Trans-Jordan became
contemporary Jordan, a country that, like Lebanon and Saudi Arabia,
had never existed before. [..]

The British took the term Filistin, ran it through some ancient Greek,
and came up with Palestine as the name for this new region. Its
capital was Jerusalem, and its residents were thereafter called
Palestinians.

None of these remnants was a nation in the sense of having a common
history or identity except for Syria itself, which could claim a
lineage going back to biblical times. Lebanon, Jordan, and Palestine
were French and British inventions, created for their political
convenience. Their national history went back only as far as Mr. Sykes
and Monsieur Picot and some British double-dealing in Arabia.

Which is not to say that the inhabitants did not have a historical
connection to the land they lived on. If not their homeland, the
territory was certainly a home, but even here there was
complexity. Under Ottoman rule, the ownership of the land,
particularly in Palestine, had been semifeudal, with absentee
landlords collecting rent from the felaheen, or peasants, who actually
tilled the soil.

Enter the Jews. Members of the European Diaspora had been moving into
this region since the 1880s, joining relatively small Jewish
communities that had existed there (and in most other Arab regions)
for centuries. This immigration was part of the Zionist movement,
which—motivated by the European idea of the nation-state—sought to
create a Jewish homeland in the region the Jews had last controlled in
biblical times.

The Jews came in small numbers, settling on land purchased with funds
raised by Jews in Europe. Frequently this land was bought from the
absentee landlords, who sold it out from under their Arab
tenants. From the Jewish point of view, this was a legitimate
acquisition of land. From the tenants’ point of view, it was a direct
assault on their livelihood, as well as an eviction from land their
families had farmed for generations. As more Jews arrived, the
acquisition of land, the title to which was frequently dubious anyway,
became less scrupulous and even more intrusive.

While the Arabs generally (but not universally) saw the Jews as alien
invaders, they did not agree on something perhaps more important: to
whom did the residents of Palestine owe national allegiance?

The Syrians regarded Palestine the way they regarded Lebanon and
Jordan—as an integral part of Syria. They opposed an independent
Palestine, just as they opposed the existence of an independent Jewish
state, for the same reason they opposed Lebanese and Jordanian
independence: for them, the Sykes-Picot agreement was a violation of
Syria’s long-standing territorial integrity.

The Hashemites, formerly from the Arabian Peninsula, had even greater
problems with the Palestinians. The Hashemites were, after all, an
Arabian tribe transplanted on the east bank of the Jordan. After the
British left in 1948, they became rulers by default of what is today
the West Bank. While sharing Arab ethnicity and the Muslim faith with
the Palestinians who were native to the area, these transplants were
profoundly different in culture and history. In fact, the two groups
were quite hostile to each other. The Hashemite (now Jordanian) view
was that Palestine was legally theirs, at least the part left after
Israel gained independence. Indeed, from the time that the Jews became
more numerous and powerful in Palestine, the Hashemite rulers of
Jordan saw these new emigrants from eastern Europe and elsewhere as
allies against the native Palestinians [..]

In 1956 [Egypt] experienced a military coup that brought Gamal Abdel
Nasser to power. Nasser opposed the existence of Israel, but he had a
very different vision of the Palestinians. Nasser’s dream was the
creation of a single Arab nation, a United Arab Republic, which he
succeeded in establishing very briefly with the Syrians. For him, all
of the countries of the Arab world were illegitimate products of
imperialism and all should join together as one, under the leadership
of the largest and most powerful Arab country, Egypt. Viewed in that
context, there was no such thing as Palestine, and the Palestinians
were simply Arabs occupying a certain ill-defined piece of land.

All the Arab states within the region, then, save the Jordanians,
wanted the destruction of Israel, but none supported, or even
discussed, an independent Palestine. The Gaza strip, occupied by Egypt
during the 1948 Israeli War of Independence, was administered as part
of Egypt for the next twenty years. The West Bank remained a part of
Jordan. The Syrians wanted all of Jordan and Palestine returned to
them, along with Lebanon.

This was complicated enough, but then the Six Day War of 1967 shuffled
the deck once more.

In 1967, Egypt expelled UN peacekeeping forces from the Sinai
Peninsula and remilitarized it. They also blockaded the Straits of
Tiran and the Bab el Mandeb, cutting off the port of Eilat from the
Red Sea. In response, the Israelis attacked not only the Egyptians but
also the Jordanian West Bank, which had shelled Jerusalem, and the
Golan Heights in Syria, which had shelled Israeli settlements.

Israel’s success, including the occupation of Jordan west of the
river, transformed the entire region. Suddenly a large population of
unwilling Palestinian Arabs was under the rule of an Israeli
state. Israel’s initial intent seems to have been to trade the
conquered areas for a permanent peace agreement with its
neighbors. However, at a meeting held in Khartoum after the 1967 war,
the Arab states replied with the famous “three no’s”: no negotiation,
no recognition, no peace. At this point the Israeli occupation of
these formerly Palestinian areas became permanent.

It was also at this point that the Palestinians first came to be
viewed as a separate nation. The Egyptians had sponsored a group known
as the Palestine Liberation Organization and installed a young man
named Yasir Arafat to lead it. Nasser still clung to the idea of an
Arab federation, but no other nations chose to accept his
leadership. Nasser wasn’t prepared to submit to anyone else, which
left the PLO and its constituent organizations, such as al-Fatah, by
default the sole advocates for a Palestinian state.

The Jordanians were happy to have the Palestinians living in Israeli
territory, as an Israeli problem. They were also happy to recognize
the PLO as representing the Palestinian people, and just as happy that
the Israelis didn’t allow the Palestinians to be independent. The
Syrians supported their own organizations, such as the Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine, which advocated that Israel should be
destroyed and that the Palestinians should be incorporated into
Syria. So the recognition of Palestinian nationalism by the Arabs was
neither universal nor friendly. Indeed, Arab support for the
Palestinians seemed to increase in proportion to the distance the
Arabs were from Palestine.

It should be obvious from this summary that the moral argument that
rages about the rights of Israel, which any American president must
deal with, is enormously complex. Beyond the substantial displacement
of populations that occurred with the creation of modern Israel, the
immigration of European Jews did not constitute the destruction of a
Palestinian nation, because no such nation had ever existed. The
Palestinian national identity in fact emerged only out of resistance
to Israeli occupation after 1967. And the hostility toward Palestinian
national claims was as intense from Arabs as it was from Jews. Israeli
foreign policy was shaped by these realities and took advantage of
them in order to impose the current political order on the region. But
whatever was the case in the past, there is certainly today a
self-aware Palestinian nation, and that is part of what must inform
U.S. policy going forward.

Apart from dealing with this incredibly convoluted history, which
weighs on any moral judgment, U.S. policy in this region must
accommodate two other basic facts. First, whatever the Israelis’
historical claim, from a twentieth-century perspective, the Jews were
settlers from another continent who displaced the natives.

Drugs

Compounding the turbulence along the border are the law of supply and
demand and the cost of goods applied to the American appetite for
narcotics. Heroin, cocaine, and marijuana, the drugs of choice,
originate as extremely low-cost agricultural products—weeds,
essentially, that require almost no cultivation. Because the drugs are
illegal in the United States, normal market forces don’t apply. The
legal risk of selling drugs drives efficient competitors out of the
market, enabling criminal organizations to create regional monopolies
through violence that further suppresses competition, which further
inflates the cost of the drugs.

Illegality means that merely moving a product a few hundred miles from
Mexico to Los Angeles will increase the price to the user by extremely
high multiples. Official estimates of the amount of money flowing into
Mexico from the sales of narcotics run from 25 billion dollar to 40
billion dollars a year. Unofficial estimates place the amount much
higher, but even assuming that the 40 billion dollar figure is
correct, the effective amount is staggeringly high. When you look at
the revenue from a product, it is not the amount you sell it for that
matters—it’s the profit margin. For a manufactured product, such as
the electronic components that Mexico exports to the United States
legally, a profit margin of 10 percent would be quite high. Let’s
assume that this is the profit margin for all legal imports from
Mexico into the United States. Mexico’s exports of 130 billion dollar
would then generate about 13 billion dollar in profit.

The profit margin on drug sales is enormously higher than 10 percent,
because the inherent cost of the commodity is extremely low. Marijuana
needs no processing, and processing costs on heroin and cocaine are
insignificant. A reasonable and even conservative estimate for the
profit margin on narcotics is 90 percent, which means that the 40
billion dollar from the illegal trade generates a profit of about $36
billion. Drugs generate free cash, then, at a level almost three times
greater than all of Mexico’s 13 billion dollar in legal exports.[..]

The American economy is too integrated with Mexico’s ever to allow a
disruption of legal commerce, which means that large numbers of trucks
will be moving between the United States and Mexico indefinitely. The
volume of traffic is too high for agents at the border to inspect all
cargoes, and therefore even if the border is walled off, both illegal
aliens and drugs will continue to slip through at international
crossings and elsewhere. Given the low cost of the narcotics before
they reach the United States, the interception of cargoes has very
little effect on trade. Cargoes are readily replaced with little
impact on aggregate revenue.

It should be much easier to stop illegal immigrants than drugs,
because it is easy to detect immigrants once they are in the
country. The simplest means of doing this is to institute a national
identity card with special paper and embedded codes that make it
extremely difficult to forge. No one could be employed until his or
her employer first cleared the card via the sort of system currently
used for credit card transactions. Any alien without a card would be
deported. Any employer who hired him or her would be arrested and
charged with a felony.

But this simple method is highly unlikely to be employed [..] deeper
reason this relatively easy step won’t be taken: the segment of
society that benefits from large numbers of low-cost workers is
greater and more influential than the segment harmed by it. Therefore,
as with the Mexican government and drugs, the best U.S. strategy is to
appear to be doing everything possible to stop the movement of
immigrants while making certain that these efforts fail. This has been
the American strategy on illegal immigrants for many years, creating a
tension between short- and mid-term economic interests and long-term
political interests. The long-term problem is the shift in
demographics—and in potential loyalties—in the borderland. The
president must choose between these options, and his only rational
course is to allow the future to tend to itself. Given the forces
interested in maintaining the status quo, any president who took the
steps needed to stop illegal immigration would rapidly lose
power. [..]

Similarly, the drug issue has a relatively simple solution that will
not be implemented: legalization. If drugs were legalized and steps
were taken to flood the country with narcotics, the street price would
plunge, the economics of smuggling would collapse, and the violence
along the border driven by all the money to be made would decline
precipitously. Along with that there would be a decline in street
violence among drug addicts seeking to steal enough money for a
fix.[..] No significant political coalition in the United States is
prepared to embrace the principle of crushing the illegal drug trade
by legalization. So, like national identity cards, legalization simply
won’t fly, for internal ideological reasons.

<a name='eurasia'/>

Eurasia

For generations, keeping the technological sophistication of Europe
separated from the natural resources and manpower of Russia has been
one of the key aims of American foreign policy...

The American interest in Eurasia—understood as Russia and the European
peninsula—is the same as U.S. interest everywhere: for no single power
or coalition to dominate. The unification of Russia and Europe would
create a force whose population, technological and industrial
capability, and natural resources would at the very least equal
America’s, and in all likelihood outstrip them. ...

The response of the United States to a Russian-German entente must be
the same during the next ten years as it was in the twentieth
century. The United States must continue to do everything it can to
block a German-Russian entente and to limit the effect that Russia’s
sphere of influence might have on Europe..

In the next ten years, an ideal solution from the American point of
view would be to split the Franco-German bloc, and in fact the
president should work to open as wide a breach as possible between the
two countries.. The United States must focus on limiting the power of
the center while simultaneously doing all it can to thwart a
Russo-German entente. In other words, it must apply the principle of
balance of power to Europe, much as Britain did. Ironically, the first
phase of this U.S. strategy must be to retain its current relationship
with Britain.

Russia

Putin’s strategy of focusing on energy production and export is a
superb short-term tool, but it works only if it forms the basis for
major economic expansion. To achieve this larger objective, Russia has
to deal with its underlying structural weaknesses, yet these
weaknesses are rooted in geographical problems that are not readily
overcome.

Unlike much of the industrial world, Russia has both a relatively
small population for its size and a population that is highly
dispersed, tied together by little more than a security apparatus and
a common culture.

Even the major cities, such as Moscow and St. Petersburg, are not the
centers of a giant megalopolis. They are stand-alone entities,
separated from each other by vast distances of farmland and
forest. Leaving apart the fact that the Russian population is in
decline, the current distribution of population makes a modern
economy, or even efficient distribution of food, difficult, if not
impossible. The infrastructure connecting farming areas to the city is
poor, as is the infrastructure connecting industrial and commercial
centers.

<a name='rurivers'/>

The problem in connectivity stems from the fact that Russia’s rivers
go the wrong way. Unlike American rivers, which connect farming
country to ports where food can be distributed, Russian rivers merely
create barriers. Neither the czars and their railway bonds nor Stalin
with his enforced starvation ever came close to overcoming the
problem, and the cost of building a connective tissue for the Russian
economy—extensive rail systems and roads—remains staggering. Russia
has always wielded a military force that outstripped its economy,

<a name='ukrgap'/>

The Gap

The turning point in relations between the United States and Russia
came in 2004, when events in Ukraine convinced the Russians that the
U.S.  intended to destroy or at least tightly control them. A large
nation, Ukraine covers the entire southwestern frontier of Russia, and
from the Russian point of view, it is the key to Russian national
security.

The Russian territory lying between Ukraine and Kazakhstan is only
three hundred miles wide, and all of Russia’s influence in the
Caucasus—along with a good deal of the oil in the pipelines to the
south—flows through this gap. At the center of the gap is Volgograd,
formerly Stalingrad. During World War II, the Soviets sacrificed one
million lives in the battle to keep that gap from being closed by the
Germans.

