# Week 44

Assad should go

What do you mean by "go"?

"Go" as in leave the country and never come back go, or as in, "he
wont be the leader of all of Syria, but (most likely) the leader of
Alawis, his minority sect, but still in Syria as part of a power
sharing agreement" go? The latter is more reasonable and realistic
IMO.. Is there a need to destroy this guy? The people who want a
caliphate who like and want to be like the Ottoman empire need
"attention" first. We mean ISIS of course.

---

Twitter User

Research shows (at work) sparring over tasks, ideas frequently spills
over into personal grudges  [..]

Possible

As species we are still new at this stuff, that is, collaborating over
ideas, knowledge, data at such a big scale -in terms of participation-
is unprecented in human history. Biologically we are still
hunter-gatherers at heart. Yes our minds are pretty good at complexity
but also, the speed at which the information is bombarded on us is at
its highest in history, it is immense. This and similar issues around
information overload are the primary topic of Future Shock. Some
countries have more experience on this than others. US got there
first. They developed a predominantly white-collar work force for the
first time - hence its work language, culture has probably most
diverse tools (for now) in dealing with this stuff. The rest of the
world is catching up tho.

---

Question

Why dont you call ISIS IS, or ISIL, or [blah]

Who cares?

We picked the common name used at the time, and went with it. The
alternative names and the confusion has to do mainly with US
government trying to hide the fact that they f**ked up detecting rise
of ISIS, and some in gov think by using a name that many people did
not commonly use, they would come across "more knowledgeable" on the
subject which, of course, they werent.

There is something broken about US intelligence, advising apparatus
that should be able to see such events coming, within reason. The NSA
shitstorm showed the preference appears to be in some other direction;
but piling up data on more and more people does not make the system
smarter. What did Gore say: "When you are looking for a needle in a
haystack, it’s not always wise to pile more hay on the haystack" (when
is this guy becoming the president btw?). Even some simple stuff
.. like, when Israeli government came against Hamas-PLO aggreement for
united governance, which was insanely irrational, u could sense
something bad was coming. Alarm bells went off in my head, and .. we
are writing this dinky little blog here. How can ppl whose job is to
monitor this stuff miss this?

---

News

US unemployment rate is at 5.8

Incorrect

Out of a population of 316 million, and the working age ppl between
25-54  being 95.607 million, and since roughly 40% are under this
demographic then 95607 / (316000 * 0.40) * 100 = 75% are employed,
meaning 25% is unemployed. 1 out of 4 people who can work is out of
work.

If there are 10 apples and 10 oranges on a table and I pick one orange
and say "I have 1/20th of oranges in my hand" it would be
incorrect. This is literally mixing apples and oranges. Correcter
thing to say is "I have 1/10th of oranges in my hand".

---

Question

I see tech, scientist people equally divided on AI doomsday scenarios. 

Which tech people? 

Most AI people, that is current researchers in the field, do not feel
an urgency about this issue. There are scientists who do, but I
believe most of them come from natural sciences / physics background,
or related fields. In such areas, especially high-energy physics you
are dealing with forces of nature that can go berserk in unexpected
directions. The goal is to tame them, use them, etc. It is dangerous
stuff... After all, that's where nuclear energy or A-bomb came from,
right? This culture has dominated the view of science for many
years. Combined with the industrial age whose structures dwarf the
individual reducing people (many workers) to mere automatons, a view
of science was formed that paints the field as 1) big 2) can go crazy
3) destroy the planet and humans alike.

AI is different. In this field the practitioners create the algorithms
from scratch, they are not trying to tame forces of nature. Yes there
are "biologically inspired" algorithms, but they are just that, an
"inspiration", not the thing itself. Even if it was, the end result is
data processing and decision making, not seperating the atom, or
shooting off lasers.

Looking at the list of people who support the AI calamity scenario can
prove this point.  Stephen Hawking: physicist. Elon Musk: his company
deals with high-energy combustion, propulsion, literally "rocket
science". Peter Thiel: an hi-tech investor (a very good one), but not
a practitioner in AI.

Note: all of the people above we respect, and agree with on many
issues btw.

---

Mises.org

As unbelievable as it seems, Central American parents are sending
their children [to the US] [Also] In many cases the children flee on
their own accord without any guardian.

A decade ago US Border Patrol agents apprehended only several hundred
unaccompanied children per year. Over the last nine months they have
caught nearly 50,000. Official estimates project the capture rate to
reach 10,000 per month by this fall. Those numbers actually hide the
enormity of the problem because historically the problem was largely
restricted to Mexican children who could be immediately returned to
Mexico. During the last couple of years, the majority of growth has
come from children from Central American countries [..]

The underlying cause for this mass dangerous migration is the US’s war
on drugs [..].

Demand for cocaine in the United States (which, unlike that in Europe,
is fed through Central America), combined with the ultimately futile
war on drugs, has led to the upsurge in violence. It is American
consumers who are financing the drug gangs and, to a large extent,
American gun merchants who are arming them. So failing American
policies help beget failed states in the neighbourhood.

Yes

Failed policies cause migration then more failed policies are mulled
over to try to "stop" the influx of people, which is merely the
symptom of the problem not the cause. IMO US needs to legalize drugs
and stop persecuting and criminalizing this behavior.

This option is not pondered because according to psychologist Clotaire
Rapaille US cultural tug-of-war is between "prohibition" and "letting
go". In their cultural mind ppl are torn apart between these two
extremes, and feel constantly pullled to one end or the other - many
problems are perceived through this one dimensional lense causing
people to see a 'tradeoff' in a subject where rationally, there exists
none.

On Iraq, US politicians and, to a certain extent, the public felt the
need to "let go", "let it all rip" (after 9/11). Then the pendulum
swings, another administration comes in to "contain self". Earlier in
history, there was a period literally called prohibition that ended up
backfiring just like the current war on drugs. There is the 60s
generation / baby boomers who generally wanted to be "free", then
pendulum swings again, in comes the conservative backlash in politics.

According to Rapaille cultural imprints are below intellect but are
stronger then rational thought. For policy making this order needs to
be switched, in US as well as in other places.

---


Because of singularity [..] AI gone wild [..] the world will witness a
calamity. Robots will kill us.

Unlikely

AI software is just like any other software - it can have
bugs. Especially in the scale some people talk about this stuff, it
will lots, which will make it vulnerable to attacks. "But it can
evolve dude, like, become more awesome each time". Yeah, but then it
will be like AI with bugs building AI with probably more bugs. The
"safest" way for these bots would be to evolve through natural
selection (nature is the most stringent QA tester), but, we've been
evolving like that for  years, and we still have bugs, and not enough
features. I mean, bats can fly blind with sonar, some animals see
wider spectrum of color.. We dont have any of it. I'd like to detect
movement behind me with sonar coming out of my ass; but I can't. It
would be an evolutionary advantage if u think about it. Say
hunter-gatherer is taking a dump out in the woods, then ... he
"senses" something.. "I detect incoming tiger in my 6 o'clock
sir".. "Roger that. Mission abort. Take your dump elsewhere".

This is not to say custom-made, special purpose AI isnt cool, and wont
be extremely useful to the point that it will displace (boring,
non-creative) jobs. The words "special purpose" are key
though. Self-driving cars are here. Playing chess, winning Jeopardy,
great. But can the chess playing AI drive the car, or play jeopardy?
Rule #1 of machine learning: No Silver Bullet. No single method solves
all problems equally well.

And, between now and this "singularity" point, we will have plenty of
time to interject, design whatever this AI can do.. Isaac Asimov did
nothing else but try to outline the parameters for this future, with
his robot laws etc.

---

Question

How do US Zionist-Christians who are goading all Jews to Israel find
such wide-spread acceptance?

Not exactly 

For a while they were heard / listened to more than their idiotic
argument deserved. But these people are actually patsies themselves -
they were maneuvered into this position because they had the right
mentality. They were "needed" in a certain ideological and strategic
context, so they were put out there getting preferential
treatment. The strategic environment is this; Iran is out of the
"system", they have an anti-Israel rhetoric, then there is Israel's
own beligerence that drew ire from all Arabs all of which causes US to
defend them. In this context, Christian-Zionist patsies are "plugged
in" to bridge the so-called religious right with the rest of the
establishment. It is easy to push forward idiots like this - one
speech here one there, few think-tanks, couple "conservative" thinkers
repeating this non-sense; soon theirs will be the only voice you'll
hear. Stranger things have happened.

---

Question

What is your favorite song?

My Biznitch Is The Shiznit

---

Question

Seriously?

No

---

Seriously; It is Burn, by Deep Purple.

---

Question

Why do a lot of rappers in videos talk or sing towards the camera?

It represents something

Conciously or subconciously, rappers in these videos represent / act
the part of a black man in jail - the camera eye then becomes the tiny
hole you, the viewer or in general "the white man" looks at them, at
the "brother in lock-up", and they are protesting, they are in your
face. There is a lot of expression there, it is truly art.

Note: Wikipedia: According to Michelle Alexander, the United States
"imprisons a larger percentage of its black population than South
Africa did at the height of apartheid".

---















