
Question

If modelers work with snapshots, does that mean time always needs to be  frozen?

No

Snapshots can even have change itself as a variable. 

---

A slice of change can depend on a frozen attribute, or,on other slices
 of change of other attributes.

How big is this slice? Since we are talking 
snapshots, the slice cannot be any slice, it is usually the smallest 
slice, or the infinitesimal slice. "Change in population depends on the current population size" - here population change is a slice. dp(t)/dt = k p(t).

BTW, usually this part of Calculus, D. Equations are not shown to students until much later in their education, they are forced into some rote on taking derivatives etc. That is not the essence of this field - Newton didnt develop Calculus so he could "take derivatives" all day. He invented it to model planetary motion. 

---

Question

So all this quantum worlds, possibilities is bullshit, what about this
fork in the road stuff. I had one in my life, I had to choose A or B -
I chose B, and I am now, like, a stockbroker. I could have been a
washmachine repairman.

No you wouldn't

My old man tells us a story sometimes - apparently at certain point in
school he had a choice between going to medical school or studying
engineering, in agriculture. He chose the latter, now he says "son, if
I became a doctor, I would have been the rich as king" (in a Turkish
accent of course). I mean, sure, it is true doctors in TR were in high
demand at certain point, so it is understandable pops thinks if that
particular road was followed, he'd be richer. But could he have done
it? When I profiled him it turned out he had this particular attribute
called Free To Roam. These people need open spaces, be able to move
around, physical freedom of movemement is very important for them;
Working in agriculture, even as an engineer gave my dad an opportunity
to be at these open spaces - at these huge industrial farms, or on the
road.

The medical alternative would have required him to spend time in
closed spaces, and uh.. develop some bedside manners..Everyone who
knows dad knows he'd never be able to do this. Fork in the road? It's
an illusion. There really never was one.

Character attributes define likes and dislikes, and these likes and
dislikes are very strong. "A man will do as he will but not will as he
will" says the wise man. Dude is right.

---

Question

If 2008 crisis came out of nowhere, could not be predicted, with the
models of that day. That sounds like a Black Swan.

What black swan!?

Graph

![](3A40.png)

See the gray bars (vertical) on the graph above, these are economic
crisis points. Every 10 years or so a a crisis arrives.. What black
swan is this guy talking about? There are no surprises here.

---

Question

Some blame the innovation gap for the recent crisis [..]

What innovation gap!?

The exact opposite is happening as a matter of fact - science and engineering is moving at such a breakneck speed people are having a hard-time keeping up. Prices in tech related fields are going down like a rock; DNA sequencing now can be done for $1000, this used to cost over $250,000 (sequencing single human genome).

This kind of change beats Moore's Law.

---

Question

On the graph above, the employment rate is shown. But isnt unemployment 6.1%?

It is not

On that graph, the % of people (over 16+) who are working, in
proportion to population is at 59%. On another graph we can also see #
of people who are between 25-54 years of age and are employed, this
count is 95,365 K. US population has 40% of ppl in this age group,
then roughly 300000 * .4 / 95365 * 100 = 79% is employed, this is for
people who are in working age, not retired, and/or out of school. Then
true unemployment is at 21%.


---
Link

Take for example, Bill O'Reilly's show, "The O'Reilly Factor."
O'Reilly had his lowest month since 2001 in the key demo, with 308,000
viewers. Yes, O'Reilly is still the No. 1 program in cable news in
both total and demo viewers, averaging 2,136,000 total viewers in May.

But the majority of those viewers are over the age of 55. In fact, the
median age for O'Reilly is now just over 72 years old. The average Fox
News viewer overall is 68.8, while the average ages of MSNBC and CNN
viewers were 62.5 and 62.8, respectively.

Wow

Yeah - pretty much noone I know (friends, coworkers) watch TV these
days. TV is part of mass-media, one-size-fits-all approach, which
belongs to second wave.

---

Comment

[Paraphrasing] Not preferring war might be okay but why is Obama
advertising this intention? If US admin did not say anything, it would
make people fear US more..?

Yeah well..

But if US does not make its intentions clear on war, then ppl will
always try to pull US into one, and "friends" can be more dangerous in
that sense then enemies. The supposed Syrian chemical weapon attack
for example was a deliberately staged attack to goad US into action,
most likely involving the infamous "Bandar Bush" of Saudi Arabia. So
bunch of regular people died just some shady person could force some
decision on some distant capital. Is this more preferable?

---

Question

For evolution, the process of random mutation is very important. Is
evolution a non-deterministic process then? Is it quantum?!! Is it
chaotic!!?

Not really

Let's say there is a region with high trees with high branches. It
would be advantegous for animals who eat the greenery to have long
necks, right? Because such animals can reach the high
leaves. According to evolution genes of animals with long(er) necks
would be preferred over generations.

Now the larger explanation cannot get lost in details, the so-called
"randomness". Which gene, when, how, at what precise condition? We
dont try to predict this event, otherwise we are in the Critical Mass,
Tipping Point territory. We dont want to be there.

Instead look at end-states: One is high branches + animals with long
necks. Other is high branches and short animals. A or B? Assad in
Syria, or Assad in Idaho baking cookies? Cell phones and digital
journalism or cell phones and print journalism? Instead of focusing on
bazillion, or random transitions, the focus is on the tractable.

Math modelers do this all the time; they will not get lost in the many
interactions, cases, particles the system can have, can be in, have
been in ad infinitum; They represent the system in one snapshot, with
enough variables making sure those relationships are set correctly
within that snapshot; then they can fast forward or rewind to
whichever state, time period using this model for prediction. The
model is like an end-state. If it has the right variables in it with
the right relationships, it is a viable end-state.

---

Question

Who are some other characters in the Dynamical Systems world?

Strogatz 

I studied Nonlinear Dynamics from the book of the great Steven
Strogatz. He is a character -- Strogatz made many contributions to the
field, and also tried to model romantic relationships using Nonlinear
Dynamics (Chaos in relationships -- how about that?). On the side he
tried to find some practical uses for ND, I believe his one attempt at
encryption did not pan out (maybe someone will continue on that work
one day). Then he shifted his interest somewhat, wrote a book called
Sync looking into more "order out of chaos" aspects of the field. He
looked at why the London Millenium Bridge wobbled while people walked
on it for example (bcz the bridge got into sync with its passangers
apparently, fascinating stuff).

Less known is the fact Steven Strogatz was the thesis advisor of
Duncan Watts, who later became famous in Network Theory, becoming a
major researcher himself in marketing, social analysis. Watts also
[debunked](http://www.fastcompany.com/641124/tipping-point-toast) the
influencer theory a few years back, another plus in his column.

---












