# Gallipoli, Russell Crowe

When he spoke about his new film, which is set four years after the
Battle of Gallipoli, Crowe said that at Gallipoli “Australia invaded a
sovereign nation” and it was time to stop celebrating the mythology of
Gallipoli. “You know, I think, after 100 years, it’s time to expand
that mythology. And I think we should be mature enough as a nation to
take into account the story that the other blokes have to tell. You
know, um, because we did invade a soveign nation that we’s never had
an angry word with".

This is true. The Galipoli loss, for some reason, became part of the
Aussie national identity. Brits told them to go there and fight, why
the hell else would they be half way around the world near a country
they had no quarrel with? Good thing some ppl started to challenge
this nationalistic non-sense.

Here is [the reason](2017/07/the-next-decade-friedman.md#australia)
why Oz attaches itself to a naval power's interest, because of
strategic need.

Some more info on the battle itself from *33 Strategies of War*, by
R. Greene.

"World War I began in August 1914, and by the end of that year, all
along the Western Front, the British and French were caught in a
deadly stalemate with the Germans. Meanwhile, though, on the Eastern
Front, Germany was badly beating the Russians [getting beat up by
Germany - again?], allies of Britain and France. Britain's military
leaders had to try a new strategy, and their plan, backed by [..]
Churchill and others, was to stage an attack on Gallipoli, a peninsula
on Turkey's Dardanelles Strait. Turkey was an ally of Germany's, and
the Dardanelles was the gateway to [Istanbul..]. If the Allies could
take Gallipoli, [Istanbul] would follow, and Turkey would have to
leave the war. In addition, using bases in Turkey and the Balkans, the
Allies could attack Germany from the southeast, dividing its armies
and weakening its ability to fight on the Western Front. They would
also have a clear supply line to Russia. Victory at Gallipoli would
change the course of the war. The plan was approved, and in March
1915, General Sir Ian Hamilton was named to lead the
campaign. Hamilton, at sixty-two, was an able strategist and an
experienced commander. He and Churchill felt certain that their
forces, including Australians and New Zealanders, would out-match the
Turks. Churchill's orders were simple: take Constantinople. He left
the details to the general.

Hamilton's plan was to land at three points on the southwestern tip of
the Gallipoli peninsula, secure the beaches, and sweep north. The
landings took place on April 27. From the beginning almost everything
went wrong: the army's maps were inaccurate, its troops landed in the
wrong places, the beaches were much narrower than expected. Worst of
all, the Turks fought back [..] well. At the end of the first day,
most of the Allies' 70,000 men had landed, but they were unable to
advance beyond the beaches, where the Turks would hold them pinned
down for several weeks. It was another stalemate; Gallipoli had become
a disaster.

All seemed lost, but in June, Churchill convinced the government to
send more troops and Hamilton devised a new plan. He would land 20,000
men at Suvla Bay, some twenty miles to the north. Suvla was a
vulnerable target: it had a large harbor, the terrain was low-lying
and easy, and it was defended by only a handful of Turks. An invasion
here would force the Turks to divide their forces, freeing up the
Allied armies to the south. The stalemate would be broken, and
Gallipoli would fall [..].

Hamilton's style was to tell his officers the purpose of an upcoming
battle but leave it to them how to bring it about. He was a gentleman,
never blunt or forceful [..] Hamilton did have one request. Once the
Turks knew of the landings at Suvla, they would rush in
reinforcements. As soon as the Allies were ashore, then, Hamilton
wanted them to advance immediately to a range of hills four miles
inland, called Tekke Tepe, and to get there before the Turks. From
Tekke Tepe the Allies would dominate the peninsula. The order was
simple enough, but Hamilton, so as not to offend his subordinate,
expressed it in the most general terms. Most crucially, he specified
no time frame. He was sufficiently vague that Stopford completely
misinterpreted him: instead of trying to reach Tekke Tepe "as soon as
possible," Stopford thought he should advance to the hills "if
possible." That was the order he gave Hammersley. And as Hammersley,
nervous about the whole campaign, passed it down to his colonels, the
order became less urgent and vaguer still [..].

The attack began in the early morning of August 7. The next morning
Hamilton began to sense that something had gone very wrong. From
reconnaissance aircraft he knew that the flat land around Suvla was
essentially empty and undefended; the way to Tekke Tepe was open--the
troops had only to march--but they were staying where they
were. [..Hamilton decides to visit the front himself] He finally
located Hammersley--he was at the far end of the bay, busily
supervising the building of his temporary headquarters. Asked why he
had failed to secure the hills, Hammersley replied that he had sent
several brigades for the purpose, but they had encountered Turkish
artillery and his colonels had told him they could not advance without
more instructions [..] Although it was already night, Hamilton ordered
Hammersley to send a brigade immediately to Tekke Tepe. It would be a
race to the finish.

Hamilton returned to a boat in the harbor to monitor the situation. At
sunrise the next morning, he watched the battlefield through
binoculars--and saw, to his horror, the Allied troops in headlong
retreat to Suvla. A large Turkish force had arrived at Tekke Tepe
thirty minutes before them. In the next few days, the Turks managed to
regain the flats around Suvla and to pin Hamilton's army on the
beach. Some four months later, the Allies gave up their attack on
Gallipoli and evacuated their troops.

Analysis [..]

If your orders are vague and halfhearted, by the time they reach the
field they will be meaningless. Let people work unsupervised [..] they
will see in your orders what they want to see [..] Unless you adapt
your leadership style to the weaknesses of the people in your group,
you will almost certainly end up with a break in the chain of command"

The excerpt above has some interesting side conclusions: First is,
even though Galipoli could not be won by the Allies, this did not
"change the course of the war". Germany and Ottomans eventually
lost. Second, the battle of Galipoli was Britain's to lose. The other
side fought well, true, but Brits were planning, attacking, just not
at the top of their game. If they were, with the right commander in
charge, the war would have been over. They had everything else in
place.

If the course of the war did not change, then what did change? The
only thing Galipoli achieve was propelling the career of a young
officier named Kemal giving him the hero status who successfully
fought the British at Suvla. Kemal would later become the founder of
Turkland.

Germans chose wrong; they partnered up with Ottomans, a land based
power, who could not complement Germany - another land based
power. But neither side probably had much choice in the matter given
the existing arragement of power around the world and the region. The
ultimate good thing coming out WWI obviously is the eventual collapse
of the Ottoman Empire which could not be stopped either, as it was
several centuries in the making.

