# The Glass Cage: Automation and Us

The term for what happens when human workers are replaced by
machines was coined by John Maynard Keynes in 1930 in the essay
“Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren.” He called it
“technological unemployment.” At the time, Keynes considered technical
unemployment a transitory condition" [..It turned out m]achine
efficiency was becoming so great that President Roosevelt, in 1935,
told the nation that the economy might never be able to reabsorb all
the workers who were being displaced. The more sanguine New York Times
editorial board then accused the president of falling prey to the
“calamity prophets.” [..]

This was a pattern that would reassert itself throughout the twentieth
century: the economy would tank, automation would be identified as one
of the main culprits, commentators would suggest that jobs were not
coming back, and then the economy would rebound and with it
employment, and all that nervous chatter about machines taking over
would fade away [..].

To be clear, there are [many physical robots] and the machines that
assemble our cars, and there are virtual robots, which are the
algorithms that undergird the computers that perform countless daily
tasks, from driving those cars, to Google searches, to online
banking. Both are avatars of automation, and both are altering the
nature of work, taking on not only repetitive physical jobs, but
intellectual and heretofore exclusively human ones as well. And while
both are defining features of what has been called “the second machine
age,” what really distinguishes this moment is the speed at which
technology is changing and changing society with it. If the “calamity
prophets” are finally right, and this time the machines really will
win out, this is why. It’s not just that computers seem to be
infiltrating every aspect of our lives, it’s that they have
infiltrated them and are infiltrating them with breathless
rapidity. It’s not just that life seems to have sped up, it’s that it
has. And that speed, and that infiltration, appear to have a life of
their own [..]

Since replacing human labor with machine labor is not simply the
collateral damage of automation but, rather, the point of it, whenever
the workforce is subject to automation, technological unemployment,
whether short- or long-lived, must follow. The MIT economists Eric
Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee, who are champions of automation, state
this unambiguously when they write: "Even the most beneficial
developments have unpleasant consequences that must be
managed…. Technological progress is going to leave behind some people,
perhaps even a lot of people, as it races ahead"

---

We cannot rely on new tech to "create" a job for everyone because the
nature of tech demands precisely the opposite. "But I'll sell my old
shoes on eBay and make money that way" argument might fly to make some
extra money on the side, but this won't constitute an income, and
cannot form the basis of any economy / society. The pace of change, of
life is just to great to rely on such superfluous arrangements. Eric
Bryjdfjkghsjdhson and Andrew McAffee are right - while tech advances
are astounding, they might not benefit everyone equally.











