# The Hoax

Many honorable people have dedicated the bulk of their professional
lives to the tedious minutiae and sad diplomatic history of the
Palestinian-Israeli morass. Sadly, none of those efforts have brought
any resolution whatsoever to a gangrenous issue ― in many respects one
of the major roots of so many of the Middle East’s contemporary ills.

The trouble is that, apart from a few dedicated diplomats and scholars
who had hopes of one day truly accomplishing something, the two-state
solution in practice is essentially a fraud. Yes, a few wiser Israeli
leaders in the past just possibly might have believed in that ideal,
but for decades now the “two-state scheme” has simply been cynically
exploited by newer Israeli leaders, especially by Bibi Netanyahu ― one
of the longer-serving and most right-wing prime ministers in Israel’s
history. [..] Netanyahu has been backed by a formidable and wealthy
pro-Zionist cheering section in the U.S. The goal is to conceal their
true agenda ― the ultimate Israeli annexation of all of
Palestine. They themselves as hard-line Zionists have been subtly but
systematically torpedoing the two-state solution behind the scenes to
that end.

None of my observations here on the hoax of the two-state solution are
new or original. Many liberal Israeli observers I met while working in
the region have been stating the self-evident for years now. But those
voices never get heard in the U.S. where it constitutes an
unmentionable. [..]

The harsh reality is that Israel, through a relentless process of
“creating facts on the ground,” is now decades deep into the process
of taking over illegally, step-by-step, the totality of
Palestine. Israel has scant regard for any international law in this
respect, and never has had any. Washington, apart from a few periodic
pathetic bleats, has ended up functionally supporting this cynical
scheme all the way, perhaps unwilling to confront the painful reality
of what is really taking place, along with its dangerous political
repercussions at home.

Israel is extending day by day its control ― indeed ownership ― of
Palestinian lands through expansion of illegal Jewish settlements and
the dispossession of the rightful owners of these Palestinian
lands. Put simply, there is little left of Palestinian land out of
which ever to fashion a “two-state solution.”

That leaves us with only one alternative: the “one-state solution.”
Indeed, Israel’s actions have already created the preconditions that
make the one-state solution an unacknowledged but virtual fait
accompli [..].

Some liberal Israelis actually do accept the idea of a one-state
solution in their own liberal vision of a future Israel ― one in which
Israelis and Palestinians live as equal citizens in a secular,
democratic, binational, multicultural state enjoying equal rights,
rather than the increasingly religiously dominated state that it
is. And the liberal ideal makes sense: the country is already well on
the way to becoming bilingual ― and Hebrew and Arabic are
closely-related languages. Both are Semitic peoples with ancient ties
to the same land.

The problem is, ardent Zionists don’t want a binational Palestinian-Jewish state. They want a “Jewish state” and demand that the world accept that term. Yet, in today’s world isn’t the term “Jewish state” strikingly discordant? Who speaks of an “English” or “French” state? The world would freak out if tomorrow Berlin started calling itself “the German State.” Or Spain a “Christian state.” So what do we make of a state that is dedicated solely to Jews and Judaism? Such concepts are remnants of 19th century movements that promoted the creation of ethnically and/or religiously pure states. Modern states no longer define themselves on either an ethnic or religious basis. Indeed it was precisely that kind of ugly religious and ethnic nationalism that caused Jews to flee from Eastern Europe in the first place to find their own homeland.

The true historical task of Israel, with the support of the world, is now to begin the challenging work of introducing the range of major reforms that will transform Israel into just such a multi-ethnic and bilingual state of equal citizens enjoying equal rights under secular law. It is not a question of “allowing Palestinians” into Israel, they are already there and have been for millennia, initially in far greater numbers than Jews. Palestinians now seek full legal equality of treatment under secular law in Israel [..]

The challenge to Israelis and Palestinians is huge. It entails a deep Palestinian rethink of their options and their future destiny in a new order, and the need to fight for those democratic rights in a binational state. It involves Israeli evolution away from “God-given rights” in a state solely for Jews and Judaism that can only be forever oppressive and undemocratic as it now stands. The process will be a slow and difficult one. But it also represents an evolution consonant with emerging contemporary global values.

We expect a democratic multicultural state from Germany and France, or from Britain, Canada and the United States ― why not from Israel?














