# How Do I Learn?

Peter Drucker 

[It is important] to know how one learns. Many first-class
writers—Winston Churchill is but one example—do poorly in school. They
tend to remember their schooling as pure torture. Yet few of their
classmates remember it the same way. They may not have enjoyed the
school very much, but the worst they suffered was boredom. The
explanation is that writers do not, as a rule, learn by listening and
reading. They learn by writing. Because schools do not allow them to
learn this way, they get poor grades.

Schools everywhere are organized on the assumption that there is only
one right way to learn and that it is the same way for everybody. But
to be forced to learn the way a school teaches is sheer hell for
students who learn differently. Indeed, there are probably half a
dozen different ways to learn.  There are people, like Churchill, who
learn by writing. Some people learn by taking copious
notes. Beethoven, for example, left behind an enormous number of 
sketchbooks, yet he said he never actually looked at them when he
composed. Asked why he kept them, he is reported to have replied, “If
I don’t write it down immediately, I forget it right away. If I put it
into a sketchbook, I never forget it and I never have to look it up
again.” Some people learn by doing. Others learn by hearing themselves
talk.

A chief executive I know who converted a small and mediocre family
business into the leading company in its industry was one of those
people who learn by talking. He was in the habit of calling his entire
senior staff into his office once a week and then talking at them for
two or three hours. He would raise policy issues and argue three
different positions on each one. He rarely asked his associates for
comments or questions; he simply needed an audience to hear himself
talk. That’s how he learned. And although he is a fairly extreme case,
learning through talking is by no means an unusual method. Successful
trial lawyers learn the same way, as do many medical diagnosticians
(and so do I).

Of all the important pieces of self-knowledge, understanding how you
learn is the easiest to acquire. When I ask people, “How do you
learn?” most of them know the answer. But when I ask, “Do you act on
this knowledge?”  few answer yes. And yet, acting on this knowledge is
the key to performance; or rather, not acting on this knowledge
condemns one to nonperformance.  Am I a reader or a listener? and How
do I learn? are the first questions to ask.

Also see Education.








at

September 09, 2013















