# Salvation by Society

Peter Drucker, The New Realities, 1989

“As long as it does not threaten the Communist Party’s monopoly of
power, it’s socialism.” This is the new “party line” preached by
Mikhail Gorbachev in Russia and by Xiaoping Deng in China. But this is
not a new pragmatism, as the Western press calls it. It is the
ideology of naked power (and very old). It totally abjures everything
that communism of any kind—or socialism for that matter - ever stood
for. It is as if the Pope declared that as long as Catholics pay the
Peter’s Pence to Rome, it does not matter whether they believe in
Christ or not. Yet no one except a small handful of superannuated
party hacks was surprised by Gorbachev’s ideology of power. Everybody
else—and especially in the Communist countries—had much earlier lost
all faith in salvation by society.

Mr. Gorbachev in Russia, and Mr. Deng and his successors in China, may
succeed in maintaining their party’s monopoly of power or even in
reviving the economy.  But one thing they cannot restore is the belief
in salvation by society, whether through communism or by any other
ism. It is gone for good. The belief in salvation by society is
equally gone in non-Communist countries. No one — except perhaps the
“liberation theologians” in South America—believes any more in the
power of social action to create a perfect society, or even to bring
society closer to such an ideal, or in fundamentally changing the
individual to produce the “new Adam.”

Fifty years ago, such beliefs were commonplace. Not only Socialists
but the great majority of political thinkers all over the world
believed that social action—and especially the abolition of private
property—would fundamentally change the human being. There would be
Socialist Man, Nazi Man, Communist Man, and so on. The differences
were not over the basic creed itself but over the speed of advance,
over which particular action would be most productive. The main
argument was over means. Should it be the role of politics and
government to remove obstacles to social perfectibility—what today
would be called “neoconservative” and sixty years ago was called
“Liberal?” Or should government actively create new institutions and
new conditions?

The belief in salvation by faith dominated medieval Europe. Revived in
the Protestant Reformation of the sixteenth century, it had waned by
the middle of the seventeenth century. To be sure, each religious
denomination roclaimed—and still proclaims—its way as “the only right
way.” But by the middle of the seventeenth century it had become
widely accepted that faith was a personal matter. This did not mean
that religious persecutions stopped; there were still some even in the
nineteenth-century West. And not until the middle of the nineteenth
century did political disabilities based on religion totally disappear
even in Western countries. But the belief that religious faith could
create the City of God on earth had disappeared — or become
irrelevant—a hundred years earlier.

The void created by the disappearance of the belief in salvation
through faith was filled in the mid-1700s by the emergence of the
belief in salvation by society, that is, by a temporal social order,
embodied in an equally temporal government. This belief was first
enunciated by Jean-Jacques Rosseau in France. Thirty years later,
Jeremy Bentham in England worked it up into a political system. It was
cast in its permanent form, into a “scientific” absolutism, by the
“father of sociology,” Auguste Comte, in France, and by G. W. F. Hegel
in Germany. Those two then “begat” Marx. Lenin, Hitler, and Mao were
all Marx’s children.









