# Why Open Source

Open source software is all around us. The Linux kernel powers most of
the smartphones out there, and for infrastructural software such as
databases, web servers, the battle has already been lost by the
commercial vendors. In the up and coming, "hot" field called as big
data, there isn't even a single closed source vendor that is worth
mentioning - at least in medium data days with its Oracles, Sybases,
SQL Servers there was some amount of fun fight. There is pure silence
now.

How did this phase shift take place?

It has to do with game theoretic choices of each actor in the
business, and the spread of technical knowledge. The actors:
programmers (the users of software), managers (deciding which software
to use), software producers (vendors, OS contributers who provide the
software).

Programmers gain certain key benefits from OS: in the knowledge econ
when careers are fluid where there is a lot of shift from one company
to the next, OS software know-how is something they can take with
them. They can build expertise on an OS software while working in one
company, and continue using it in another company. A huge benefit. 

The motivation of the second actor in the system: managers deciding
which software to use. Choosing free over commercial is much easier in
terms of budget - as long as the quality is comparable to commercial
software.

The final actor in the system: the producers of software: They could
contribute code to OS because it is possible, easy. The capability of
the software community at large reached a certain maturity.

If we throw all choices, priorities into the bowl and stir, optimize
it is clear the equilibrium point for all can be none other than open
source.

