# Naspers

In 1997, the management of Naspers and the New York Times were each
confronting dawn on the Internet and the insidious challenge it posed
to the mere idea of a "paper of record," expensive printing plants and
truck fleets and the conceit that all important news and information
could be contained in one place. In 1997, audiences were starting to
have more choices than ever; there was a quickening news cycle,
distribution that was instantaneous and bloggers who held
intergalactic megaphones. This was before Google, Facebook, Twitter,
Netflix, iTunes, Pandora and WhatsApp; before videos had been
transmitted on YouTube; and before the first smartphones and appstores
had put the power of yesterday’s supercomputers in everyone’s’
pockets. It was also before it was obvious that people could buy a
song rather than an album, catapult directly to a product page on
Amazon, watch a TV show when they wanted, scan news aggregation sites
for the latest headlines, dip into specialty sites for detailed
coverage and, most importantly, it was way before most sponsors had
woken to the fact that were now ways to accurately measure how their
advertisements performed.The management of Naspers decided to ride,
rather than fight, the technology tide while the management of the New
York Times chose otherwise. Today, coincidentally, both companies have
fairly new CEOs, and while the head of the New York Times has to deal
with the consequences of twenty years of ruinous decisions, his
counterpart at Naspers has been dealt a royal flush. The New York
Times CEO inherited a company that missed not just one but two media
revolutions - television (mastered in a spectacular manner by Rupert
Murdoch) and online (mastered by Koos Bekker, CEO of Naspers) [..].

Between the early 1990s and mid 2000s, the management of the New York
Times spent around $2 billion (not including a real estate adventure
in midtown Manhattan) on assets that later melted down. The Boston
Globe (bought for $1.3 billion) and Worcester Telegram & Gazette
(bought for $296 million in 1999) were sold last year for $70
million. About.com, bought in 2005 for over $400 million, was later
offloaded to IAC for about $300 million. Even more embarrassing was
the use of $600 million of cash to repurchase stock of the company. In
2000 – admittedly the height of the dot.com zaniness – the New York
Times had revenues of $3.6 billion and operating profit of $635
million. Last year, its revenues were $1.6 billion and operating
profit was $158 million.















