# The End of Work

Jeremy Rifkin, The End of Work, 1996

The increasing violence taking place on the streets of America is
being played out in other industrialized nations throughout the
world. In October 1999 in Vaulx-en-Velin, a depressed working class
town near Lyon, hundreds of youth took to the streets, clashing with
police and later riot troops, for more than three days. Although the
riot was triggered by the death of a teenager run over by a police
car, local residents and government officials alike blamed increasing
unemployment and poverty for the rampage. Youths stoned cars, burned
down local businesses, and injured scores of people. By the time it
was over, the damages had run to $2o million.

In Bristol, England, in July 1992, violence erupted in the wake of an
accident uncannily similar to the one that occurred in
Vaulx-en-Velin. A police car had run over and killed two teenagers who
had stolen a police motorcycle. Hundreds of youth rampaged through the
shopping area, destroying commercial property. Over 5oo elite troops
had to be called up to quell the disturbance."

French sociologist Loic Wacquant, who has made an extensive study of
urban rioting in first-world cities, says that in almost every
instance the communities that riot share a common sociological
profile. Most are formerly working class communities that have been
caught up in and left behind by the transition from a manufacturing to
an information-based society. According to Wacquant, "For the
residents of flagging working class areas, the reorganization of
capitalist economies--visible in the shift from manufacturing to
education intensive services, the impact of electronic and automation
technologies in factories and offices, and the erosion of
unions... have translated into unusually high rates of long-term
joblessness and a regression of material conditions." [..]

A growing number of politicians and political parties--especially in
Europe--have been playing off the concerns of working class and poor
communities, exploiting their xenophobic fears of immigrants taking
away precious jobs [..]. Rarely, in their public statements, do any of
the leaders of the extreme right broach the issue of technology
displacement. Yet it is the forces of downsizing, re-engineering, and
automation that are having the most effect on eliminating jobs in
working class communities in every industrial country.

Nathan Gardeis, the editor of New Perspectives Quarterly, summed up
the prevailing mood in terms remarkably similar to the arguments used
to characterize the plight of urban blacks just thirty years ago, when
they were uprooted first by new agricultural technologies in the South
and then by mechanical and numerical-control technologies in Northern
factories. "From the standpoint of the market," says Gardeis, "the
ever swelling ranks of the [unemployed] face a fate worse than
colonialism: economic irrelevance." The bottom line, argues Gardeis,
is that "we don't need what they have and they can't buy what we
sell." Gardeis foresees an increasingly lawless and foreboding
future--a world populated by "patches of order and swaths of
pandemonium." Some military experts believe that we are entering into
a new and dangerous period of history increasingly characterized by
what they call low-intensity conflict: warfare fought by terrorist
gangs, bandits, guerrillas, and others.

Military historian Martin Van Creveld says that the distinctions
between war and crime are going to blur and even break down as
marauding bands of outlaws, some with vague political goals, menace
the global village with hit-and-run murders, car bombings,
kidnappings, and high-profile massacres. In the new environment of
low-intensity conflict, standing armies and national police forces
will become increasingly powerless to quell or even contain the
mayhem, and will likely give way to private security forces that will
be paid to secure safe zones for the elite classes of the high-tech
global village.

Two very specific courses of action will need to be vigorously pursued
if the industrialized nations are to successfully make the transition
into a post-market era in the twenty-first century. First,
productivity gains resulting from the introduction of new labor and
time-saving technologies will have to be shared with millions of
working people. Dramatic advances in productivity will need to be
matched by reductions in the number of hours worked and steady
increases in salaries and wages in order to ensure an equitable
distribution of the fruits of technological progress. Secondly, the
shrinking of mass employment in the formal market economy and the
reduction of government spending in the public sector will require
that greater attention be focused on the third sector: the non-market
economy.

It is the third sector--the social economy--that people will likely
look to in the coming century to help address personal and societal
needs that can no longer be dealt with by either the marketplace or
legislative decrees. This is the arena where men and women can explore
new roles and responsibilities and find new meaning in their lives now
that the commodity value of their time is vanishing. The partial
transfer of personal loyalties and commitments away from the market
and the public sector and to the informal, social economy foreshadows
fundamental changes in institutional alignments and a new social
compact as different from the one governing the market era as it, in
turn, is different from the feudal arrangements of the medieval era
that preceded it.
