# Israel's Bluff

FT.com

The diplomatic crisis at the UN triggered by the Palestinians’ attempt
to win recognition as a state may or may not advance their quest for
justice and self-determination. But what it has started to do is strip
away layer after layer of the cant and duplicity that has enveloped
the so-called peace process.

The starting point for any consideration of the Palestinians’
diplomatic gambit is that the negotiations that appeared to promise so
much after the 1993-95 Oslo accords have not ended the Israeli
occupation of their land. Mahmoud Abbas, successor to the late Yassir
Arafat as Palestinian president, has eschewed violence and staked
everything on negotiations. He has nothing to show for it except the
ruin of his reputation.

Whereas Arafat was a feckless negotiator who kept the option of the
gun dangerously in play and preferred the trappings of statehood to
the statecraft needed to win a state, Mr Abbas and his prime minister,
Salam Fayyad, have chosen diplomacy and nation-building. But the
occupation continues.

Going all the way back to Oslo, the peace process has served as an
international smoke and mirrors screen for the inexorable expansion of
Israeli settlements on Palestinian land. It cannot be stated often
enough that the biggest single enlargement of the settlements took
place in 1992-96, at the high-water mark of the peace process under
Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres, when the number of settlers grew by 50
per cent, or four times the rate of population growth inside Israel.

Since then, the colonisation of the West Bank and Arab east Jerusalem
has reached the point at which no viable Palestinian state is now
possible unless this is reversed. But these settlements are intended
to be permanent. The so-called Palestine Papers, leaked documents to
al-Jazeera in January detailing how Mr Abbas was willing to give up
nearly all of east Jerusalem but was still scorned by the previous,
allegedly moderate Israeli government, make this abundantly clear.

Benjamin Netanyahu, the current Likud premier who leads a coalition
freighted with irredentist believers in a Greater Israel, has never
himself believed in anything more than a sort of supra-municipal
government for Palestinians, on roughly half the land conquered by
Israel in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.

The real story here, therefore, is not that UN recognition will
torpedo a peaceful resolution of the conflict negotiated by these two,
vastly unequal sides. There is no prospect whatsoever of that
happening. It is that international recognition of the Palestinians
right to a state would call Israel’s bluff and expose the hollowness
of the US role as a less-than-honest broker.

--

Palestinians' attempt for UN recognition is related to Arab Spring --
the message presented in front of Western public opinion is "at a time
when many Middle Eastern countries rid themselves of their dictators,
why shouldnt we rid ourselves of Israel?" -- Israel being their own
regional dictator. The timing is pretty good on their part. Nice move.
