# Eternal Dawn

From the Ryan Gingeras book

[Kemal] declared that Dolmabahçe was no longer “the palace of caliphs
but truly the people’s palace.” “Here,” Kemal concluded, “I am elated
to be solely the nation’s guest.” For the remainder of his life,
Mustafa Kemal could hardly be called a mere guest of the old
palace. Dolmabahçe gradually became both his part-time residence and
formal reception hall. Like the sultans before him, he chose the home
as a place to welcome and entertain visiting dignitaries, statesmen,
and royalty...

It was only in the early 1950s that the public was allowed to step
foot again into the “people’s palace.” Editors and statesmen who
passed comment upon the death of Mustafa Kemal did not express
discomfort or bemusement with the president’s strong affections for
Dolmabahçe. Atatürk was no sultan-caliph, despite the fact that he had
lived and died in a palace built for the departed Ottoman
dynasty. Such an association flew in the face of the man’s reputation
and achievements... 

[During late Ottoman era] The reign of the first Ottoman parliament,
however, proved short-lived. A rising tide of domestic crises
gradually bled the sultan’s patience with constitutional
governance. The outbreak of popular revolt among villagers and
townsmen in Bosnia and Bulgaria in 1876 cast a shadow over the
ascendant liberal order.  Rather than settle local and international
apprehensions, state efforts to crush the uprisings provided an
aggressive Russian government a casus belli to invade.  Under the
guise of Istanbul’s humbling defeat in the Russo-Ottoman War of 1877,
Abdülhamid II abrogated the constitution, suspended the parliament,
and reinsti- tuted a stringent monarchical order over the
state... [But then] Abdülhamid II’s authoritarian turn led to growing
levels of militancy in the empire’s Balkan and Anatolian provinces...

Rather than grant greater authority to trained professionals, like
[like Mehmet Cavid], in finding solutions to the challenges facing the
nation, the empire’s ruling sovereign, Abdülhamid II, jealously
guarded his power. The Great Powers of Europe, it often seemed, drew
strength from the sultan’s predilection toward autocracy. As the
government sank deeper into debt, and fell under ever greater foreign
control, men such as Cavid sensed that the state teetered on the brink
of collapse.

Fears of the empire’s imminent fall drove Mehmet Cavid into the
company of like-minded officials and officers desperate for political
change... The party that Mehmet Cavid and his confederates established
in Salonika, the Committee of Union and Progress (or CUP), seized
power and came to command the empire as a whole. The Young Turks, as
the foreign press often referred to them, took to governing with the
same ferocity and conviction that propelled them to stage their
dramatic revolution in 1908. Their desire to unify the nation and
bring order to the state led them to confront dissent with increasing
severity.  The outbreak of the Great War proved a tipping point in
their rule. Rather than bring the many peoples of the empire together
as a “nation-in-arms,” the war, and the CUP’s management of it,
wrought terrible chasms within society. By the armistice in 1918,
large numbers of Ottoman citizens cast the Young Turks as the chief
culprits for loss and suffering witnessed across the empire. The CUP’s
revolution, from the perspective of 1918, was a false dawn. Rather
than save the state, the Young Turks had condemned it.

Yet, the defeat of Mehmet Cavid and other so-called Unionists in 1918
did not mark the end of the Ottoman state or necessarily the CUP
itself. Though the party would formally dissolve itself in the wake of
the empire’s capitulation, competing Young Turk factions
reconsolidated themselves as the postwar order unfolded.  The
humiliation brought on by the subsequent occupation of the empire gave
rise to a new set of leaders eager to reinvent themselves, and the
remnants of their party, into the saviors of the state and nation. The
largest of the factions, Mustafa Kemal’s self-proclaimed Nationalists,
gradually prevailed over what remained of the empire.

No appreciation for the early history of the Turkish Republic can
begin without a proper understanding of the origins, desires, and
tribulations of the Young Turks. Their era by no means constituted a
mere placeholder or prologue to the dramatic events that occurred
thereafter. Turkey, as it came to be defined philosophically, was the
unintended offspring of this movement. The most profound attributes of
Atatürk’s state, its thirst for radical social change, its
predilection for chauvinistic nationalism, and its oligarchic
structure, descended directly from the CUP’s approach towards
politics...

Cavid is an instructive, though somewhat underappreciated, figure in
the making of modern Turkey. His biography genuinely captures
important aspects of the country’s origins and he embodies key traits
of the empire that had preceded it. The complexity of his background,
a Turkish-speaking Muslim of Jewish ancestry born in modern-day
Greece, encapsulates the diversity and richness the Turkish Republic
eventually sought to deny or destroy...

<a name='cupethnic'/>

Typifying the passions and contradictions within the CUP were the
three men most instrumental in later propelling Mustafa Kemal to
power. Like the Gazi himself, Kazım Karabekir, Ali Fethi Okyar, and
İsmet İnönü each joined the party as young officers serving in the
Balkans. Ethnically and geographically the three men shared little in
common. Ali Fethi was born of wealthy Albanian parents in the central
Macedonian town of Prilip. As the sons of public servants, İsmet and
Kazım spent only a portion of their youths in their hometowns of
Istanbul and Izmir. Their respective fathers, the former a Kurd from
Malatya and the latter a descendant of provincial Turk notability from
Karaman...

[Kazim's] patriotism was partially born of a hatred towards Armenians
that his family instilled in him at an early age. An attempt upon the
life of Abdülhamid II by Armenian militants in 1905 helped crystalize
his general suspicion towards non-Muslims in general. If an Armenian
had killed the hated sultan, he and others would have grieved over the
crime...

