# Organized Crime, Asia Minor

From the book by Ryan Gingeras

The Ottoman state itself, depending upon one's perspective, was born
out of the raiding of Byzantine lands by horsemen loyal to Osman Bey,
founder of the Ottoman household. The slow transformation of Osman's
petty fiefdom bordering Byzantine Constantinople into a massive state
residing on three continents naturally did not leave the Ottoman
Empire immune from the marauding the first Ottomans were initially
known for...

<a name='otto2'/>

It is in the seventeenth century that we see the initial signs of
state decentralization in the Ottoman lands. Unlike the classic cases
of France or Great Britain, two states that developed more
consolidated, centralized forms of governance during the early modern
period, Ottoman governance instead relied increasingly upon locally
rooted power brokers as the main arbiters of imperial administration.
The question of who would serve in such a capacity was largely the
outcome of local competition between regional political factions. The
decentralized structure of Ottoman imperial rule became ever more
entrenched during the eighteenth century. By 1800, the collective
authority, military potential, and even financial might of local lords
(*ayan*) vastly overshadowed the sultan’s court in Istanbul.

Political and administrative decentralization in the Ottoman Empire,
beginning in the seventeenth century, was arguably both a consequence
and an expression of a second important precedent: the growing
visibility and the politicization of banditry. Karen Barkey has
convincingly demonstrated that, unlike in many of the emerging
nation-states of Europe, a series of short-term, as opposed to
long-term, strategies defined Istanbul’s responses to banditry and
peasant rebellion during the seventeenth century. Among the strategies
employed by the Ottoman capital was the recruitment of celalis,
bandits, and would-be bandits into both the military and the
provincial administration. Militarily, such a policy did hold certain
immediate benefits. As the Ottoman Empire engaged in grander military
campaigns, campaigns that demanded larger numbers of foot soldiers
equipped with firearms, employing bandits and peasant rebels provided
a stopgap resource for filling the ranks. In an empire where the
capital exerted increasingly less influence in local affairs, bandits
and rebels emerged to become the sort of provincial power brokers that
became synonymous with this age of decentralization. Men such as Ali
Pasha of Jannina, the great *ayan* of the western Balkans at the turn
of the eighteenth century, assumed such heights through his earlier
career as a bandit in what is today the borderlands of Albania and
northern Greece...

[Mahmut II's] drive towards state centralization, and state-run
reform, resulted in the mass elimination or suppression of provincial
*ayan* lords, rebellious janissaries, and recalcitrant tribes in
various corners of the empire... [however b]anditry, as well as other
forms of organized criminal behavior, did not subside with the rise of
the modern Ottoman state [now 'political banditry' would begin]...

Ironically, the first faction to successfully utilize armed gangs
[*çetes*] as a means of projecting political control over the region
was an indigenous movement with no official ties to any of the
competing states in the Balkans. Founded in 1890 in the port city of
Salonika, the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO)
principally advocated the creation of an autonomous state in Macedonia
that was largely outside of the control of Istanbul... within four
years after the rise of the so-called Young Turks [who had toppled the
autocratic Abdulhamit II, but became autocratic themselves], *çete*
violence slowly returned to Macedonia with a vengeance. Finally, in
the fall of 1912, the armies of Greece, Bulgaria, Serbia, and
Montenegro marched into Macedonia with the support of local Christian
armed bands, resulting in the final dismemberment of the Ottoman
Balkans.

To be sure, the IMRO was no mafia. More importantly, one cannot find
an Ottoman official who conceived of Macedonian militants as gangsters
or members of some discrete organized crime outfit. Nevertheless, *çete*
violence in Macedonia would have a lasting imprint upon future
perceptions and interpretations of organized crime. The word *çete*,
which is of Slavic and not Turkish origin, eventually became the
staple term applied to contemporary gangs and criminal syndicates in
the Republic of Turkey. Yet like the more historical usage of eşkiya,
*çete* may still be applied more loosely to groups and activities
exclusive of crime. *Çete* and *çetecilik*, for example, may be used to
describe a “guerrilla” or “paramilitary activity,” two forms of
behavior that could just as easily be undertaken by legitimate or
official actors.

*Çete* violence in Macedonia had a direct effect upon many of the
leaders of the late Ottoman state, as well as many of the founders of
the Turkish Republic. Erik Jan Zürcher has convincingly demonstrated
that the Young Turk generation of officers and bureaucrats were rooted
in the events that transpired in Macedonia between the 1870s and 1912.
A majority of the seminal members of the Committee of the Union
and Progress (CUP), the clandestine party that secretly organized the
1908 revolution, were born in the southern Balkans. A great many more
officers and officials who came to lead or serve the Young Turk state
had experienced the violence first hand as local administrators or
military commanders...

Although it was the regular armies of Serbia, Greece, and Bulgaria
that were responsible for the partitioning of Ottoman Macedonia, local
*çetes*, after years of terrorizing local administrators, security
personnel, and civilians, appeared to have helped blaze their path to
victory. As the empire limped towards the outbreak of the First World
War, the apparent strength of and threat posed by Greek and Armenian
*çetes* weighed heavily upon the minds of many within the capital...

[At the opposite end] the CUP appropriated or formed *çetes* of local
Muslims [of its own] during the spring and summer of 1908. It was at
the head of their own bands of Muslim (mostly Albanian) paramilitaries
that such heroes of the Young Turk Revolution as Ahmet Niyazi and
Enver were launched into fame and political prominence.

Like the IMRO, it would be grossly inaccurate to consider the CUP’s
*çetes* in Macedonia anything like organized crime (even though their
acts were still officially considered criminal). Yet, unlike the IMRO,
it is clear that many within the ranks of the CUP considered the
formation of state-backed gangs to be a legitimate and effective tool
in combating a similar foe. In an era when the empire seemed beset on
all sides by uncompromising and violent adversaries both inside and
outside the imperial borders, fighting separatists and irredentists
(both real and imaginary as it would turn out) with their own methods
was deemed warranted...

Since the formal collapse of the Young Turk regime in 1918,
organizing, facilitating, supporting, and praising the activities of
pro-government gangs persists in the contemporary Republic of
Turkey. Even the use of the term *çete* has remained consistent. What
has changed, perhaps, is the nature or character of the modern
“çeteci.” While a member of a CUP-sponsored gang may have been a
shepherd, an unemployed field hand, or refugee pressed into service, a
çeteci in contemporary parlance denotes an individual who is nothing
less than a thug or a gangster.  A çeteci today would almost certainly
engage in a criminal trade like arms or drug trafficking...

By the end of the 1700s, particularly with the loss of the Crimea at
the hands of imperial Russia, the Ottoman Empire would also experience
the first throes of an ongoing series of refugee crises. The arrival
of hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatar refugees during the first
half of the nineteenth century foreshadowed even larger waves of
migrants destined to settle within the confines of the Ottoman
Empire. The political and social evolution of many of these immigrant
communities (Tatars as well as many others), as we will see, are
crucial to understanding both the nature and the perceptions of
organized crime up to the present...

The arrival of Muslim refugees from the Balkans and the Caucasus in
the hundreds of thousands served to radically change the demographic
complexion of what remained of the Ottoman Empire [19th century]
... Virtually all of these newcomers arrived with no possessions or
any means to carry on their former livelihoods... It did not take long
for many newcomers to garner a reputation for lawlessness, banditry,
and violence.

As one pages through official reports or even newspaper clippings from
the turn of the twentieth century, it appears that certain ethnicities
acquired a particularly acute reputation for criminal behavior. It is
difficult to find examples of provincial banditry without running
across the names of men specifically identified by their ethnic
background. In the absence of a paternal name, using ethnic epithets
did serve as a proper way of distinguishing a Muslim man’s identity
(for example, *Arnavut* Mehmet, Mehmet the Albanian or *Çerkes* Ahmet,
Ahmet the Circassian)... A last ethnic group that became especially
associated with banditry in the late Ottoman Empire was the Laz. The
Laz, a predominantly Muslim group closely related to the Mingrelian
branch of the Georgian peoples, possess a long history of labor
migration within the context of the Ottoman Empire...

As mentioned earlier, elements of the CUP state (that is, members
found in both the military and the bureaucracy) came to see the use of
Muslim gangs as an effective tactic in their war against Orthodox
Christian separatists in Macedonia.  Although bandits could be found
within the ranks or at the head of gendarmerie outfits throughout the
empire, the outright mobilization or appropriation of *çeteci* seems
to have been an ad hoc strategy largely localized to the Ottoman
Balkans before 1912. The outcome of the first Balkan war, however,
seems to prompted a change in approach among some Young Turk
strategists. In the wake of the Bulgarian occupation of Western
Thrace, a cabal of CUP commanders, led by the hero of the Young Turk
Revolution, Enver Pasha, drew together a small host of junior officers
in a clandestine attempt to reassert Ottoman control over this
strategically vital region. Dubbed the Special Organization
(Teşkilat-ı Mahsusa), this paramilitary unit, it was hoped, would
provide a vanguard for Muslim resistance to the Bulgarian
occupation. Aside from a few engagements and scattered propaganda
efforts, the Special Organization ultimately failed to preempt the
loss of Western Thrace.

Nevertheless, an important precedent was established with the creation
of the Special Organization. Rather than a regional tactic meant to
amplify local counterinsurgency efforts, the deployment of a unified
body of paramilitaries would allow the central government to take the
fight to provincial guerrillas and dissidents without involving
regular elements of the Ottoman security establishment [which later led
to the 'alleged' Armenian Genocide]...

It is abundantly clear that officials and officers in the service of
the Ottoman Empire were greatly concerned with the threats posed by
bandits lurking in the countryside. But for all of the steps taken by
the imperial government to minimize the supposed root causes of
brigandage, it is also clear that Muslim bandits were not viewed as
the sole or perhaps most paramount threats to the absolute security
and existence of the state... As Istanbul lurched towards the outbreak
of world war in 1914, the CUP government reasoned that the prospect of
future revolts among Anatolia’s Christian populations (namely
Armenians, Greeks, and Assyrians) could not be countered reflexively
or passively. Aggressive, proactive steps had to be taken in order to
stave off the kind of disaster that befell Ottoman Macedonia. Assuring
the survival of the empire, in other words, meant eradicating these
potentially disloyal segments of the Ottoman population before they
took up arms. 61 In prosecuting such a bloody, and ostensibly
illegal, stroke of action, elements of the CUP government recruited
and utilized gangs and bandits as effective, but disposable,
instruments of state violence...

The declaration of the Republic of Turkey in 1923 did not lead to an
official change in policy towards immigrants with violent or criminal
proclivities. Efforts to limit the ability of immigrants to congregate
together in densely packed communities were reinitiated immediately...
Several scholars have correctly cited such steps as manifestations of
Ankara’s unwavering commitment to nationalize and “Turkicize”
Anatolia’s diverse population. Indeed, Mustafa Kemal (Atatürk), as
well as many of his supporters and retainers, argued with great vigor
that it was essential to stamp out any variance in identity other than
Turkish nationalism. Yet, in considering the Ottoman roots of
Kemalism, one could argue that Ankara’s drive towards “Turkification”
also served, at least in the minds of Turkish officials, a more
practical purpose. Singling out Albanians, Circassians, and Laz (as
well as, to different degrees, Kurds, Bosnians, Cypriots, Cretans,
Arabs, Armenians, and Greeks) as suspect groups helped to ensure the
physical security of the state... In the wake of Mustafa Kemal’s rise
to power, official organs of the Turkish government would eventually
abandon even the use of minority terms or epithets (such as Laz,
Albanian, or Kurd) with respect to the population... Nevertheless,
behind closed doors, Turkish officials in the post-Ottoman era
continued to view crime in part through the prism of ethnicity...

In surveying both the documentary evidence and the testimony and news
reporting from this era, there is one aspect of counter-narcotics
politics and policing in the Menderes era that remains somewhat
elusive. According to contemporary sources, drug interdiction efforts
undertaken by Aygün and the DPS may have similarly provided a vehicle
for a more generalized pattern of domestic and foreign intelligence
gathering. Moreover, particularly in the wake of his indictment by the
military regime in 1960, there is some evidence that suggests that
Kemal Aygün and the Democratic Party may have tapped the Turkish
underworld to fill the ranks of privately armed gangs or paramilitary
squads. While it is difficult to completely validate these latter
claims, such a direct alliance formed between the ​Democratic Party and
the urban thugs would have been in keeping with early trends from the
late Ottoman and early Republican periods...

<a name='deep'/>

The failing political fortunes of Turkey’s more notorious gangsters
has not impeded the illicit trafficking that helped to bring the
Turkish underworld to life.  Like many other countries since the end
of the Cold War, narcotics trafficking in and out of Turkey has grown
more diverse and ever-more lucrative. Continued illicit opium
cultivation in Afghanistan, despite a brief dip in the late 1990s,
remains a staple base for morphine and heroin production smuggled
through Turkey. A vibrant “Balkan route” connecting Turkish
wholesalers to retailers in Europe and elsewhere endures as a central
conduit for heroin...

Months before the 1980 coup, the Interior Ministry created a special
department (the Ministry’s Department of Smuggling, or Kaçakçılık
Daire Başbakanlığı) responsible for overseeing law enforcement issues
(including intelligence) related to smuggling. The office further
expanded in 1995..

At [around 2000] Sami Hoştan had become a household name in
Turkey. Born in the Macedonian capital of Skopje in 1947, he arrived
in Turkey at the age of seven and settled in the city of Istanbul
(where he acquired the nickname Arnavut Sami, or Sami the
Albanian). Over the course of his life he spent much of his time
working in Europe, primarily in the Netherlands. By the 1990s he had
earned a reputation as a major investor and partner in several casinos
in Istanbul as well as the Netherlands. His involvement in gambling,
according to prosecutors in both Western Europe and Turkey, served to
mask his involvement in the narcotics trade. In 1992, he was accused
of smuggling close to 300 kilos of heroin into Holland and Germany...

Although never convicted of any wrongdoing as a result of the scandal,
government prosecutors have long maintained Arnavut Sami was one of a
large cast of gangsters, politicians, and security personnel who
helped to form a series of state-backed gangs (çetes) deployed against
the PKK...

The first indication of the complex and twisted web tying
individuals... to the Susurluk scandal came as a direct result of the
car crash that killed Abdullah Çatlı in November 1996 [others in the
car were a police chief, head of a Kurdish tribe from the region of
Urfa who was also an MP]... The plot thickened when press reports got
wind of the presence of both weapons and official passports bearing
Çatlı’s pictures and assumed aliases. The passports, which were
reserved for special state employees, had been signed personally by
the Minister of the Interior, Mehmet Ağar, a one time high-ranking DPS
official who had recently been appointed to the Interior
Ministry... Mehmet Ağar did stand trial in September 2011 and was
found guilty of forming a criminal gang (even though this gang has
never been implicated officially in any crime)...

Sedat Peker, who took the stand in the fall of 2011, was far more
forthcoming in explaining his past dealings with high-ranking
political officials and their connections to both Susurluk and
Ergenekon. Before the court, Peker claimed to have intimate knowledge
of the inner workings of the milieu that organized and executed the
murders of several individuals in the 1990s. In his testimony ..  he
claimed that an agent from MİT, Korkut Eken, had ordered and helped
finance the killings of Kurdish businessmen with links to the PKK...

Turkish deep state’s imperial roots [is correct]. The power of the
*ayan* (and their bandit retainers), as well as the CUP’s mobilization
of provincial *çetes*, resembles contemporary state-criminal alliances
similar to those seen in the wake of the Susurluk scandal.  Ankara’s
recent need to recruit members of Turkey’s underworld for service
against ASALA and the PKK resonate strongly in the assistance rendered
by kidnappers, brigands, and killers as frontline troops and policemen
(in the case of the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries)
or clandestine assassins and storm troopers (as in the *çetes* of the
Special Organization). A select number of outlaws in the Ottoman
Empire and Turkey have benefited from such patronage, resulting in the
marginalization of competing criminal interests and the entrenchment
of illicit syndicates within the provincial and national political
system (particularly in times of crisis).

