# Che

The Dictator's Handbook, pg 25

Lest there be doubt that those who share the risks of coming to power
often are then thrown aside—or worse—let us reflect on the
all-too-typical case of the backers of Fidel Castro’s revolution in
Cuba. Of the twenty-one ministers appointed by Castro in January 1959,
immediately after the success of his revolution, twelve had resigned
or had been ousted by the end of the year. Four more were removed in
1960 as Castro further consolidated his hold on power. These people,
once among Fidel’s closest, most intimate backers, ultimately faced
the two big exes of politics. For the luckier among them, divorce from
Castro came in the form of exile. For others, it meant execution. This
includes even Castro’s most famous fellow revolutionary, Che Guevara.

Che may have been second in power only to Fidel himself. Indeed, that
was likely his greatest fault. Castro forced Che out of Cuba in 1965
partly because of Che’s popularity, which made him a potential rival
for authority. Castro sent Che on a mission to Bolivia, but towards
the end of March 1967 Castro simply cut off Guevara’s support, leaving
him stranded. Captain Gary Prado Salmon, the Bolivian officer who
captured Che, confirmed that Guevara told him that the decision to
come to Bolivia was not his own, it was Castro’s. One of Fidel’s
biographers remarked, "in a very real sense Che followed in the
shadows of Frank Pais, Camilo Cienfuegos, Huber Matos, and Humberto
Sori Marin [all close backers of Castro during the revolution]. Like
them, he was viewed by Castro as a ‘competitor’ for power and like
them, he had to be moved aside ‘in one manner or another.’ Che Guevara
was killed in Bolivia but at least he escaped the ignominy of
execution by his revolutionary ally, Fidel Castro. Humberto Sori Marin
was not so ‘fortunate.’ Marin, the commander of Castro’s rebel army,
was accused of conspiring against the revolution. In April 1961, like
so many other erstwhile backers of Fidel Castro, he too was executed."

Political transitions are filled with examples of supporters who help
a leader to power only to be replaced. This is true whether we look at
national or local governments, corporations, organized crime families,
or, for that matter, any other organization.

---

But for many years Fidel happily used Che's image to bolster his own;
now it looks like it was he who sent Che to his death.. What an
asshole (is he still alive?). Here is a Fidel joke: He is given a
Galapagos turtle as a gift. He asks how long the animal will
live. "About four hundred years", he is told. Fidel shakes his head
sadly, and  says, "That's the trouble with pets. You get attached to
them and then they die on you".

*ba-dum-tshh*












