# The Dictator's Handbook

Mesquita

[P]olitics is not terribly complicated. But by the same measure,
history’s most revered political philosophers haven’t explained it
very well. The fact is, people like Niccolò Machiavelli, Thomas
Hobbes, James Madison, and Charles-Louis de Secondat (that is,
Montesquieu), not to forget Plato and Aristotle, thought about
government mostly in the narrow context of their times...

For Montesquieu, the Enlightenment, the new Cartesian thinking, and
the emerging constitutional monarchy of Britain all combined to
stimulate his insightful ideas of political checks and
balances. Through these checks and balances he hoped to prevent
exactly the corruption of public welfare that the charter city
election in Bell foisted on its citizens...

Now there is no doubt that Montesquieu, Madison, Hobbes, and
Machiavelli were very clever and insightful thinkers (and surely
brighter than us). However, they got an awful lot of politics wrong
simply because they were coping with momentary circumstances. They
were looking at but a small sample of data, the goings-on surrounding
them, and bits and pieces of ancient history. They also lacked modern
tools of analysis (which we, luckily, have at our
disposal). Consequently, they leapt to partially right, but often
deeply wrong, conclusions. In all fairness to these past luminaries,
their shortcomings often have to do with the fact that, besides being
bound by their then-present contexts, these thinkers were also caught
up in “the big questions”—what the highest nature of man ought to be,
or what the “right” state of government really is, or what “justice”
truly means in political terms. This shortsightedness extends not only
to history’s legends in political thought, but also to contemporary
thinkers like Jürgen Habermas, Michel Foucault, and John
Rawls—thinkers who someday may be viewed in the same light.

The big questions of how the world ought to be are indeed
important. But they are not our focus. Questions of philosophical
values and metaphorical abstractions—these simply don’t apply to the
view of politics that we’ll present in the pages ahead. We do not
start with a desire to say what we think ought to be. It is hard to
imagine that anyone, including ourselves, cares much about what we
think ought to be. Neither do we exhort others to be better than they
are. Not that we do not hope to find ways to improve the world
according to our lights. But then, we believe that the world can only
be improved if first we understand how it works and why. Working out
what makes people do what they do in the realm of politics is
fundamental to working out how to make it in their interest to do
better things.

The modern vernacular of politics and international relations, from
balances of power and hegemony to partisanship and national interest,
is the stuff of high school civics and nightly news punditry. It has
little to do with real politics. And so, you may be delighted—or
disappointed—to hear that this particular book of politics is not
concerned with any of this. Our account of politics is primarily about
what is, and why what is, is. In this book, we hope to explain the
most fundamental and puzzling questions about politics, and in the
process give all of us a better way to think about why the worlds of
rulers and subjects, of authorities and rights, of war and peace, and,
in no small way, of life and death all work in the ways that they
do. And maybe, just maybe, from time to time we will see paths to
betterment...

Castro

Lest there be doubt that those who share the risks of coming to power
often are then thrown aside—or worse—let us reflect on the
all-too-typical case of the backers of Fidel Castro’s revolution in
Cuba. Of the twenty-one ministers appointed by Castro in January 1959,
immediately after the success of his revolution, twelve had resigned
or had been ousted by the end of the year. Four more were removed in
1960 as Castro further consolidated his hold on power. These people,
once among Fidel’s closest, most intimate backers, ultimately faced
the two big exes of politics. For the luckier among them, divorce from
Castro came in the form of exile. For others, it meant execution. This
includes even Castro’s most famous fellow revolutionary, Che Guevara.

Che may have been second in power only to Fidel himself. Indeed, that
was likely his greatest fault. Castro forced Che out of Cuba in 1965
partly because of Che’s popularity, which made him a potential rival
for authority. Castro sent Che on a mission to Bolivia, but towards
the end of March 1967 Castro simply cut off Guevara’s support, leaving
him stranded. Captain Gary Prado Salmon, the Bolivian officer who
captured Che, confirmed that Guevara told him that the decision to
come to Bolivia was not his own, it was Castro’s. One of Fidel’s
biographers remarked, "in a very real sense Che followed in the
shadows of Frank Pais, Camilo Cienfuegos, Huber Matos, and Humberto
Sori Marin [all close backers of Castro during the revolution]. Like
them, he was viewed by Castro as a ‘competitor’ for power and like
them, he had to be moved aside ‘in one manner or another.’ Che Guevara
was killed in Bolivia but at least he escaped the ignominy of
execution by his revolutionary ally, Fidel Castro. Humberto Sori Marin
was not so ‘fortunate.’ Marin, the commander of Castro’s rebel army,
was accused of conspiring against the revolution. In April 1961, like
so many other erstwhile backers of Fidel Castro, he too was executed."

Political transitions are filled with examples of supporters who help
a leader to power only to be replaced. This is true whether we look at
national or local governments, corporations, organized crime families,
or, for that matter, any other organization.

Iran

Iran’s corruption ranking in 2010 was the thirty-second worst (that
is, it ranked 146 out of 178 countries in honest business dealings),
making it one of the more corrupt regimes in the world [..] Per capita
income [..] in Iran [is] only $4,530. Thus, despite its vast oil
wealth, Iranians, on average earn [very little]. Tax rates are high
[.. they] extract more income tax [.. and have] progressive income
taxes although a small group in Iran, known as the Bonyads, is exempt
from taxation and even exempt from accusations of corruption. They
manage the money of the senior ayatollahs and some key military
leaders. The Bonyads are reputed to control 20 to 25 percent of Iran’s
annual income—not bad as private benefits go.

Debt, Aid

[W]e saw the paradoxical result that as Nigeria’s oil revenues grew so
did its debt. It wasn’t that the oil itself encouraged
borrowing—autocrats always want to borrow more. Rather revenues from
oil meant that Nigeria could service a larger debt and so people were
more willing to lend. [..]

Although the large coalition size in a democracy places some
restrictions on the level of borrowing, democratic leaders are still
inclined to be financially irresponsible. Remember, while the debt is
paid by all, the benefits disproportionately flow to coalition
members. Over the last ten years the economies of many Western nations
boomed. This would have been a perfect time to reduce debt. Yet in
many cases this did not happen. [..]

From a Keynesian perspective, many governments are taking the perverse
steps of trying to cut spending during a recession instead of
stimulating demand. This does not reflect a desire by politicians to
borrow less. Rather debt crises in Iceland, Greece, and Ireland have
led many investors to doubt the ability of nations to repay. This has
pushed up the cost of borrowing and made it much harder to secure new
loans. It is supply, not demand, that has shrunk.

Markets limit how much a nation can borrow. If individuals borrow too
much and either cannot or will not repay it, then banks and other
creditors can seize assets to recover the debt. With sovereign lending
to countries, however, creditors cannot repossess property. [..] In
practice, the only leverage lenders have over nations is to cut them
off from future credit. Nevertheless, this has a profound effect, as
the ability to engage in borrowing in financial markets is
valuable. For this reason nations generally pay their debt.

However, once the value of access to credit is worth less than the
cost of servicing the debt then leaders should default. If they don’t
then surely a challenger will come along who will offer to do so. [..]

As debt approaches the balance point where the value of access to
credit equals the cost of debt service, lenders refuse to increase the
overall size of debt. At this point, if leaders want to borrow more,
then they need to increase revenues such that they could service this
additional debt. As in the Nigerian case, the discovery of exploitable
natural resources provides one means to increase debt service and
hence more borrowing. However, without such discoveries, the only way
to increase borrowing is to increase tax revenue. For autocratic
leaders this means liberalizing their policies to encourage people to
work harder because they already tax at a high (implicit) rate. Only
when facing financial problems are leaders willing to even consider
undertaking such politically risky liberalization. They don’t do it
frequently or happily. They liberalize, opening the door to a more
democratic, representative and accountable government only when they
have no other path to save themselves from being deposed today [..]

Debt forgiveness is a popular policy, but one that is generally
misguided. Those in favor of forgiving the debt of highly indebted
poor countries argue that the debt burden falls on the poor people of
the nation who did not benefit in a consequential way from the
borrowed funds. This is certainly true. As we have explained, the
benefits go to the leader and the coalition while the debt obligation
falls on everyone. But people who argue for debt forgiveness construct
their arguments in terms of how they think the world should operate,
rather than how it actually works.

[I]t is useful to look back at some of the largest debt-relief efforts
prior to 2000. It is particularly illustrative to observe how
important the nature of governance is. Even though creditors carefully
chose those nations that they thought would behave sensibly, in the
wake of debt relief many nations started increasing debt again.

As a percentage of debt, the largest debt reliefs prior to 2000 were
given to Ethiopia in 1999 (42 percent of debt), Yemen in 1997 (34
percent), Belarus in 1996 (33 percent), Angola in 1996 (33 percent),
Nicaragua in 1996 (30 percent) and Mozambique in 1990 (27
percent). With the exceptions of Angola and Nicaragua, each of these
nations promptly started reaccumulating debt. For instance, after a
series of small debt reductions, in 1999, with the forgiveness of $4.4
billion, Ethiopia had its debt reduced to $5.7 billion. But by 2003
this debt had risen to $6.9 billion. Despite the forgiveness of $589
million of debt in 1996, Belarus’s debt has steadily risen from $1.8
billion in 1995 to over $4.1 billion in 2005. Even though
debt-reduction programs vet candidates, these examples suggest that in
many cases forgiveness without institutional reform simply allows
leaders to start borrowing again.

