# B. Mesquita and India

[Link](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/10/19/recipe-for-failure/)

Despite the hoopla, the U.N. climate change conference in Copenhagen
is destined to fail. Here’s what will happen instead: Over the next
several decades, world leaders will embrace tougher emissions
standards than those proposed — and mostly ignored — in the 1997 Kyoto
Protocol. But real support for tougher regulations will fall. ...

How do I know all this? Because in 1979, I learned that I could
predict the future.

Don’t get me wrong — I’m no soothsayer and I have no patience for
crystal-ball gazers, astrologers, or even most pundits. In my world,
science, not mumbo jumbo, is the way to predict people’s choices and
their consequences for altering the future. I use game theory to do
just that for the U.S. government, big corporations, and sometimes
ordinary folks, too. ...

There is nothing uncanny about my ability to predict. Anyone can learn
to use scientific reasoning to do what I do, though I’ve been refining
the model I use ever since I accidentally got into the prediction
business back in the last days of disco.

The opportunity initially fell into my lap when a U.S. State
Department official called to ask me who was likely to be India’s next
prime minister. At the time I was a professor of political science at
the University of Rochester — where the application of game theory to
political questions originated — and I had written my Ph.D. thesis at
the University of Michigan about winning and losing strategies among
India’s opposition parties. So the State Department official was
asking me to use my "expert" knowledge to speculate about the next
Indian government.

It happened that I had just designed a mathematical model for a book I
was writing about war, as well as a little computer program to make
the necessary calculations. The program provided a way to simulate
decision-making under stressful circumstances like those that
sometimes lead to war. It calculated the probability that actors would
get what they wanted if they chose one course of action (say,
negotiations) or another (like war), weighting the probabilities by an
estimate of how much the decision-makers valued winning, losing, or
intermediate compromise outcomes. Of course, it also recognized that
they had to work out how others might respond to the choices they
made.

The phone call about India got me thinking that maybe war and peace
decisions really aren’t that different from everyday political
confrontations. Sure, the stakes are higher — people get killed in
wars — but then any politician seeking office sees the personal
political stakes as pretty darn high. Intrigued, I grabbed a yellow
pad and listed everyone I thought would try to influence the selection
of India’s next government. For each of those people (political party
leaders, members of India’s parliament, and some members of critical
state governments), I also estimated how much clout they had, what
their preference was between the various plausible candidates for
prime minister, and how much they cared about trying to shape that
choice. With just one page of my yellow pad filled with numbers, I had
all the information the computer needed to predict what would happen,
so I plugged it in and awaited the results.

My "expertise" had led me to believe that longtime parliamentary
leader Jagjivan Ram would be India’s next prime minister. He was a
popular and prominent politician who was better liked than his main
rivals for the prime minister’s job. I was confident that he was truly
unbeatable. He had paid his political dues and it seemed like his time
had come. Many other India watchers thought the same thing. Imagine my
surprise then when my computer program, written by me and fed only
with my data, predicted an entirely different result. It forecast that
Charan Singh would become prime minister, that he would include
someone named Y. B. Chavan in his cabinet, and that they would gain
support-albeit briefly-from Indira Gandhi, then the recently ousted
prime minister. The model also predicted that the new Indian
government would be incapable of governing and so would soon fall.

I found myself forced to choose between my personal opinion — that Ram
would win — and the logic and data behind my model. In the end, I
chose science over punditry. When I relayed my findings to the State
Department official, he was taken aback. He noted that no one else was
suggesting this result and that it seemed strange at best. When I told
him I’d used a computer program based on a model of decision-making
that I was designing, he just laughed and urged me not to repeat that
to anyone.

A few weeks later, Charan Singh became the prime minister with
Y. B. Chavan as his deputy prime minister and support from Indira
Gandhi. And a few months after that, Singh’s government unraveled,
Gandhi withdrew her backing, and a new election was called, just as
the computer model had forecast.

