# Why Nations Fail

Daron Acemoglu

Poor Egypt

Egypt is poor precisely because it has been ruled by a narrow elite
that have organized society for their own benefit at the expense of
the vast mass of people. Political power has been narrowly
concentrated, and has been used to create great wealth for those who
possess it, such as the $70 billion fortune apparently accumulated by
ex-president Mubarak. The losers have been the Egyptian people, as
they only too well understand.

We’ll show that this interpretation of Egyptian poverty, the people’s
interpretation, turns out to provide a general explanation for why
poor countries are poor. Whether it is North Korea, Sierra Leone, or
Zimbabwe, we’ll show that poor countries are poor for the same reason
that Egypt is poor.

[Rich c]ountries [..]  became rich because their citizens overthrew
the elites who controlled power and created a society where political
rights were much more broadly distributed, where the government was
accountable and responsive to citizens, and where the great mass of
people could take advantage of economic opportunities [..] People
fought for and won more political rights, and they used them to expand
their economic opportunities. The result was a fundamentally different
political and economic trajectory, culminating in the Industrial
Revolution.

The Industrial Revolution and the technologies it unleashed didn’t
spread to Egypt, as that country was under the control of the Ottoman
Empire, which treated Egypt in rather the same way as the Mubarak
family later did. Ottoman rule in Egypt was overthrown by Napoleon
Bonaparte in 1798, but the country then fell under the control of
British colonialism, which had as little interest as the Ottomans in
promoting Egypt’s prosperity. Though the Egyptians shook off the
Ottoman and British empires and, in 1952, overthrew their monarchy,
these were not revolutions like that of 1688 in England, and rather
than fundamentally transforming politics in Egypt, they brought to
power another elite as disinterested in achieving prosperity for
ordinary Egyptians as the Ottoman and British had been. In
consequence, the basic structure of society did not change, and Egypt
stayed poor.

