# Week 32

Fox News

[About the Cincinnati cop shooting and killing an unarmed black man]
Cops wouldn't make "bad decisions" if "the perp didn't run away" [..]
Just comply.

Hah

The problem is even if a brother doesn't (cannot) run, he might get
choked to death (i.e. Eric Garner death in New York). So stay, get
choked to death, run, get shot. The "perp" in Cincinnati must have
thought he is better off running. You can't fault a black man trying
to maximize his chances for survival.

---

Question

Jeremy Rifkin, *The Zero-Marginal Cost Society*

Between 2008 and 2012, while the Great Recession was bleeding workers,
industry was piling on new software and innovations to boost
productivity and keep profitable with smaller payrolls. The effect of
these efforts is striking. Mark J. Perry, a University of Michigan
economics professor and visiting scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute, a conservative think tank based in Washington, D.C., ran
the numbers. By the end of 2012, according to Perry, the U.S. economy
had made a complete recovery from the 2007–2009 recession, with a
gross domestic output of 13.6 trillion (in 2005 dollars). That was 2.2
percent higher, or 290 billion dollars more real output, than in 2007,
just before the recession, when the GDP was at $13.32 trillion. Perry
observes that, while real output was 2.2 percent above the recession
level in 2007, industry churned out the increase in goods and services
with only 142.4 million workers in 2012—or 3.84 million fewer workers
than in 2007. Perry’s conclusion: “The Great Recession stimulated huge
productivity and efficiency gains as companies shed marginal workers
and learned how to do ‘more with less (fewer workers).

So productivity has been increasing

Otherwise employers would not be able to do more with less. Another
proof: Employee participation (the opposite of unemployment) is on the
down trend, at the same time, there is annual GDP growth (quick note:
2% growth year-by-year means exponential growth, 2% of a big pie is
much bigger than 2% of a smaller pie). More can be done. Outsourcing
to China has slowed down to switch to automation. I favor
full-automation, hoping employers create conditions where they are
shedding jobs en masse causing wide-spread joblessness. This is a good
thing.

---

Question

Why are you against industrial production?

I am not

There was agricultural production during 2nd Wave, and there is / will
be industrial production during the 3r Wave. But industrialization
will lose its ability to dictate how people live / work / get educated
/ get healthcare, etc, because most will not be participating in
smokestack production. We are not assembly line workers anymore, even
though the system thinks that we are.


Everyone is talking about debt, citing huge nominal figures that
strongly affect public-policy debates worldwide. But all debt is not
created equal.

For starters, when it comes to public debt, there is a big difference
between the gross and net figures. While Japan’s gross public debt,
for example, is a massive 246% of GDP, the net figure, accounting for
intra-government debts, is 127% of GDP.

Moreover, what should really matter about a country’s public-debt
burden is the expected annual cost of servicing it. As Daniel Gros
recently pointed out, debt that can be rolled over indefinitely at
zero interest rates is no debt at all. This is an extreme example; but
the closer a fixed interest rate gets to zero, and the longer the
maturity becomes, the lower the burden of the stock of debt.

Although Greece’s public debt amounts to about 175% of GDP, low
interest rates – which are fixed for a large proportion of it – and
long maturities mean that it may be more manageable than it
seems. Greece’s ratio of public-debt service to GDP is similar to that
of Portugal, or even Italy. Indeed, that is why the latest deal with
Greece, which entails even more bailout funds, could work [..]

Good

---

Question

Alvin Toffler talks about social innovation here. What are some other examples?

Here is one

There is a bar here in Berlin called Jager Bar; every other Sunday
they organize a Jam Night for amateur musicians. They have all
instruments for a band ready on a stage, and they prepare a list of
songs, usually famous ones that a lot of people know how to
play. Anyone can go to this list put their name for the instrument of
that song if they know how to play it, i.e. I write mine for the drum
part of YYZ by Rush someone else might go for the guitar part of Black
Velvet, whatever. Once a song completes its "instrument list" the ppl
who signed up for that song go on stage and play it.

This is a social innovation. The bar makes money by selling drinks to
musicians while they are waiting, watching others, etc.  Usually their
friends come in too, so it is a packed night (not bad for a
Sunday). And this social innovation requires nothing more than a
bloody pen and paper.

---

Bunch of Articles 

[Paraphrasing] Malaysia's Malay policy is failing [..] Lebanon's
government is dysfuctional [..] Aung San Suu Kyi is authoritarian [..]
Syria is f**ked.

Absence of a Dictator or Presence of Elections Does Not Equal Large W

All of the problems above could be fixed with the
two-party-system-with-quotas approach we mentioned before. In Burma
instead of a lightning-rod activist like Suu Kyi to have "another"
party, you create two (without Suu Kyi in either one, less flash the
better) - so the existing regime is not pit against the rest. 

In Lebanon the heartland of "sectarianism": each of the two parties
would be forced to have, by law, 50% men, 50 women% of which 40% are
Christian 60% Muslim members of which 30% must be Sunni and 30%
Shite. Boom, as they say. The "distribution rule" can be implemented
at various levels, but the end-result must be that each party, after
the election, ends up with members in parliament exactly reflecting
the allocation listed above.  Then, party A with that distribution
gets elected, stays in there a while.. then time goes on, popularity
starts to wane because the electorate is similar all around the world
in that sense, they get tired of the party in power, then maybe there
is an economic crisis (there is always a crisis), so they get the fuck
out. Great! In their place, party B comes in with exactly same
allocation.  No minority or majority "loses power", but power changes
hands, more competition means better service.

Malaysia; the majority, Malays, will have the majority in both
parties. However minorities can play the deciding factor in an
election because they are inside each party who are otherwise very
similar to eachother, so the minority's vote will be
courted. Whichever minority favors one party in one election would
reap the benefits after the election, perhaps at regional level first;
"Chinese from Kuala Lumpur voted for us, let's give them little
somethin somethin". 

Syria? The ultimate secterian hell hole? Obviously Sunnis will come to
power, or be the major portion of either of the two parties, just like
Shites are in Iraq - and the Russian rulers will have to swallow that
whopper no matter what the consequences. But within two-party system
minorities cannot be opressed anyway because they everyone has a say
in one form or another. 

This system is a starting point obviously - as time goes on, some or
all restrictions could be lifted. It is the best that is possible
within the confines of a mass-election system. 

It is critical the system is based on party / parliament level, and
the role of a President is minimal. President, as a single person, can
become the single-point-of-failure (parliaments can influence their
prime minister more efficiently), plus the campaigning around these
people have a way of turning into these spinning-monkey shows where
candidates are spewing inane vomit left and right talking bunch of
non-sense (sorta like the Republican primary right now). The ultimate
goal of our proposed system is to distribute the risk, rewards, be
functional in any country with any ethnic / religious make-up and the
volume gets TURNED DOWN.

---

HuffPost

The Chinese talk of Pakistan as an "all-weather friend," reflecting
exactly how Pakistanis see them as well. The Chinese in private will
go through the list of other close allies and point to their flaws:
the North Koreans are seen as erratic, the "crazy younger brother," a
scholar at a dinner remarked; Burma or Myanmar has let them down and
they can never fully rely on Iran, according to another scholar, as it
appears "too keen to be seduced by the U.S.That leaves Pakistan -- and
Pakistan alone, in spite of its alliances with Western nations, has
stood by China through thick and thin. China has reciprocated with a
mixture of emotion and real politik -- it has just signed its biggest
defense deal ever according to analysts, which gives Pakistan eight
first-class submarines. It is a strange and unlikely love affair.

Interesting

Did not know the relationship was that cozy. Pakis would need a big
ally against their arch-rival India, and China would fit that
description, for the simple reason them being not India, but the
relationship having been that far developed.. It's nice
actually. Everyone needs allies - the more the marrier.

---

News

After four Marines and a sailor were killed by a lone gunman last
week, armed civilians have volunteered to stand guard at military
recruiting stations around the country — but troops are being warned
to keep their distance and alert law enforcement of their presence.

Dude, go home

And don't show up dressed as Batman either.

Jeez.

---

Comment

American fire-fighters [are] almost eight times more likely to die on
the job than other first world firemen.

Not surprising

This Hero Complex issue is related to this post - US culture is based
on the necessities arising from a small population inhabiting a large
amount space. Even US cultural tug-of-war between prohibition /
freedom (letting it happen, letting go) has to do with this - during
the containment phase you are holding your ground, building in one
place, but there is this huge other space that needs to be populated,
then you need to "let it rip" to "make that jump". Heroes, as a
concept, are required for the second phase, for hero is the dude who
dives right in. The society needs -or needed-, them especially when
the country was small. But now, as US becomes more urban, everyone is
living in (relatively) close quarters in cities, does the society need
some nut dressed as Batman running around trying to save people?
Admittedly some good things did come out of the US's early inception
dynamic (cultures aren't entirely stupid, like a broken clock, they
can show the right time twice a day), such as the pragmatic approach
to and even fascination with technology (Einstein noticed this
relationship as well, he talks about it in The World As I See It.) -
that's good. But some the other stuff needs to go. Pronto.

---

Question

How do you get your news?

RSS

This quaint little tech from the 90s.. is still around, and is used
for feeds. Anyway - at first I used Google News, along with its app,
but the app does not give details offline (offline is the new online
duuude). Then I started using an RSS reader app called ... RSS Reader,
and subscribed to theguardian, google news, bbc, reuters, huffpost,
washingtonpost etc.

Related:

The Culture Code

Stuff White People Like

---

WikiLeaks has crowdsourced a bounty of €100,000 to be paid out to
anyone who can get them a copy of the secret Transatlantic Trade and
Investment Partnership. I'm not sure which is craziest here: That a
modern western democracy could negotiate a trade deal in secret and
keep it classified; that a news organization could offer a bounty for
its contents; or that the bounty could be crowdsourced [..]

It is all crazy

News

[Chinese] users rattle off a list of symptoms, such as achy joints,
red eyes and a cough, and the Chinese search giant sends an immediate
diagnostic suggestion (flu, 75% odds). Then, it links users to a
nearby medical specialist.  A majority of Chinese online turn to the
Web first for health information, and voice search is far less
cumbersome than text, Wei said.

“From a patient’s point of view, you’d rather have something like
natural language — something you can talk to, [so] you can describe
multiple symptoms at the same time,” he told Re/code. “Our long term
goal is to build a medical robot.”

Awesome

---

Commenter

Single payer healthcare system will slow-down the innovation in
pharmaceutical drugs

Bollocks

Drug research can be funded like any other branch of science, through
government, or through start-ups with interesting & marketable
ideas. As it stands current system is doing its best to destroy
medical research through legislative abominations such as Bayh-Dole.

---

FT

[For Mason] Wikipedia epitomises a potentially brave new
postcapitalist world.[..] Some readers may scoff at this. [..] But
even if you love the current capitalist system, it would be a mistake
to ignore the book. For Mason weaves together varied intellectual
threads to produce a fascinating set of ideas. At times, the text is
unnervingly dense; Mason has done extensive research. But the thesis
about “postcapitalism” deserves a wide readership among right and left
alike.

His starting point is an assertion that the current technological
revolution has at least three big implications for modern
economies. First, “information technology has reduced the need for
work” — or, more accurately, for all humans to be workers. For
automation is now replacing jobs at a startling speed; indeed, a 2013
report by the Oxford Martin school estimated that half the jobs in the
US are at high risk of vanishing within a decade or two.

The second key point about the IT revolution, Mason argues, is that
“information goods are corroding the market’s ability to form prices
correctly”. For the key point about cyber-information is that it can
be replicated endlessly, for free; there is no constraint on how many
times we can copy and paste a Wikipedia page. “Until we had shareable
information goods, the basic law of economics was that everything is
scarce. Supply and demand assumes scarcity. Now certain goods are not
scarce, they are abundant.”

But third, “goods, services and organisations are appearing that no
longer respond to the dictates of the market and the managerial
hierarchy”. More specifically, people are collaborating in a manner
that does not always make sense to traditional economists, who are
used to assuming that humans act in self-interest and price things
according to supply and demand. “The biggest information product in
the world — Wikipedia — is made by 27,000 volunteers, for free,” he
observes. “If it were run as a commercial site, Wikipedia’s revenue
could be $2.8bn a year. Yet Wikipedia makes no profit. And in doing so
it makes it almost impossible for anybody else to make a profit in the
same space.” [..]

Instead, Mason thinks that it is time to recognise that technology has
turned us all into individualists — but connected us by networks in
unusually powerful ways. And he wants to use the power of millions of
individuals to build a more equal and just world that is no longer
dominated by a “neoliberalism [that] is the doctrine of uncontrolled
markets”. More specifically, Mason thinks — or hopes — that a
postcapitalist world is a place where only part of the population will
work for cash, on a quasi-voluntary basis; the rest will be pursuing
non-monetary goals. He wants governments to provide a guaranteed
income for the entire population and free (or low-cost) basic services
and public infrastructure. He also wants companies to automate as many
processes as they can (rather than relying on cheap labour) and
central bankers to conduct financial repression to reduce national
debt.

Mason’s vision for the future, in other words, is a world where the
government provides the framework to enable individuals to flourish
but state functions are handed over to citizens. It is a place where
people are secure — and equal — enough to use the efficiencies
unleashed by automation to pursue worthy goals, such as volunteering
to write Wikipedia pages. [..]

[But Mason does not] address the issue that tends to preoccupy many
unions and leftwing groups today, namely the fact that technology is
currently turning many workers into the equivalent of insecure digital
sharecroppers, rather than collaborative creative spirits. Just look
at the current fights around Uber, and the lack of security for
workers there.

You missed the point entirely

If you have guaranteed income, you would not be an "insecure digital
sharecropper" - you would work on things that are important to you,
and once in a while one of those passions can make good money, making
you rich.

In terms of terminology - I prefer calling the new system
postindustrial free market system.

---

As the U.S. flag was raised at America's embassy in Havana for the
first time in 54 years, John Kerry called for a "genuine democracy" in
Cuba and his comments were broadcast across the country in full,
translated accurately into Spanish so everyone could understand.

Cubans should be free to choose their own leaders, Kerry said, telling
the government to respect international norms of human rights.

Cuba's government hit back by criticizing the United States' own
record on rights, but it did let its people hear Kerry.

Cool

Reestablishing relations with Cuba: great.

Are there any other pariah states left? How about North Korea? Can't
the Chinese take care of these f--kers?

---

News

Google is to delay the trial of its modular smartphone until next year
at the earliest as its development proved more complicated than had
been expected.

Project Ara aims to build a mobile device with numerous removable
components, which would allow users to change multiple parts including
the screen, battery and memory.

Darn

Cannot wait to see what these guys will produce.

Sooo is Ara under Alphabet? How about Cloud services?

---

News

Alphabet likely won't absorb Google Cloud Platform, Compute Engine

Aha

So IT'ish stuff remain under the big G.

---
Last night's debate sent Fox News'  ratings through the roof

They managed the debate surprisingly well

They asked some hard questions, it was well managed overall. Someone I
know wanted to create a drinking game around the debates - here's an
idea: you drink when u hear the 'R' word: Ronald Reagan.

The candidates.. they all suck. There is only one guy even worthy of
mention, but I won't name any names. A hint? It's not the paisan, it's
not Trump, and it sure as f**k ain't Bush. Which means any of those
three would be _great_ for Hillary. Those three guys: I support
you. I'm behind you 110 percent. Go for it.

---

But in a 3W world, power-law looms large, temporary monopoly is the
norm. Then why bother two-party-with-quotas approach?

Parties do not live in the 3W

Mass-election systems are by definition second-wave artifacts, so they
need to be regulated like canned beans. Just like the 1982 break-up of
AT&T was necessary because it was hindering competition, party system
needs to be structured in the developing world so there is more
competition. Noone gives a shit about Skype having the lead today, but
there was a time when the monopoly of AT&T mattered. It was part of
that world. Sure the new and improved system (whatever it may be)
might not need any of this, but developing democracies, or countries
without any sane representation need something working, today.

Even Westerners themselves do not completely understand this - or what
makes their own system tick. After all, The Logic of Political
Survival came out on 2003 (the year of Iraq invasion, oddly enough)
that clearly tries to explain how the system works and why. "Have
bunch of parties, have elections" is the usual advice but as we all
know this doesn't work everywhere, all the time . Parties and
elections are only one part of the system.

In the developed world The Integrators do their job well-enough. The
system is tuned constantly so the public's mood gets reflected better
in governance. Who are "they", these Integrators you ask.. They are
the people who prefer "grand coalition" in Germany for example, and
guess what, they get their grand coalition. That's how it's done. Or
it's that guy who whispers into Gordon Brown's ear that after the
election he lost even though he could arithmetically, attempt to form
a coalition, "it will result in political crisis if you try". Guess
what? Brown gives up the idea. It is that guy / those people who
decide a black US President could be a idea after Dubya.

In the absence of these people, stability needs to be forced by
law. The developing world does not have the time to go through insane
ups and downs that even the West went through at times, such chaos
will not bode well for anyone, it will cause refugee crisis' for
starters as we witness right now, effecting everyone negatively.

---

Musicians, writers, and other creative folk are still scratching their
heads over the cover story in Sunday’s New York Times Magazine: “The
New Making It” — packaged online as “The Creative Apocalypse That
Wasn’t” — looked at how the Internet economy, instead of destroying
creative careers, had redrawn them in “complicated and unexpected
ways.”[..]

Some of the statistical stuff is wonky and hard to explain
succinctly. But one of the key objections comes from Johnson’s claim
that more people are making their livings as musicians. But since the
statistical categories were changed midstream to accommodate school
teachers, the early numbers and the later numbers become an
apples-to-oranges comparison: the numbers of working musicians, it
appears, is not going up but down.

All Models Are Wrong, Some Suck

---

Bruce B. de Mesquita

If Hillary Clinton was nominated by the Democrat Party for 2008, she
would have been elected as President.

True

The Abramovitz model agrees: Republicans were going to lose 2008 no
matter what. That means Democrats could have nominated a tree trunk
for 2008, and that would have been the next President of the United
States. No offense to Hillary, she would have been great prez, but
that's what happened.  

---

Comment

Democracy is a luxury, can only work in rich societies, it is not a
necessity.

Most likely untrue

In The Logic of Political Survival BBM makes the opposite case where
he uses the winning coalition W as a measure of better
governance. According to this research increases in W effect GDP
growth positively. Here is the causation part - the book calculates
increase in W based as difference between W of two years ago and
calculates its relation between the current year's growth.

I was able to replicate his results (see the notebook from the
previous link). [geek] the only part I am not too crazy about is R^2
being too low, but the model overall is significant [/geek]. Change in
W's coefficient is at 1.8, this means going from lowest to highest W
adds over 1% to GDP growth. Blimey. The effect does not necessarily go
the other way; that avenue is explored in the book as well.

---

Question

Why is the situation described here by Fukuyama not cool? He said
"[Nigeria is] divided into more than 250 ethnic and religious
communities that do not want to work with one another. Their ties are
instead vertical, to clientelistic networks controlled by the elites,
who dole out just enough patronage and subsidies to mobilize support
at the next election".

Vertical divisions decrease W

Let's imagine country Z has 9 ethnic minorities with near equal
members. Each has its own party, blacks, whites, Asians, Hispanics, so
forth.. Every black votes for the Black Party, Hispanics for the
Hispanic Party, etc and after the election, 5 out of 9 parties form a
coalition. Sadly in this case the winning coalition can only revolve
around whoever is deciding the leaders of the parties - because
people, by sticking to their own party, are not making a choice here,
really. Then, we have low W, low W means low growth.

A brief seque here: I'd like to expound on the previous two-party idea
we mentioned before. Let's say the Chinese wanted to go
multi-party. Their leaders are tired of this dictator bullshit, they
don't want to party like it's 1899. Here's how to do it.. In 6 easy
steps! Call now! Kidding. But here are are the steps: shut down the
Communist Party (it had a really effin  stupid name anyway given that
China today is anything but Communist), create two new parties,
distribute the old geezers among both. Have quotas for each minority
in each party exactly mirroring their percentages in the greater
population. Then maybe have a symbolic president who has some amount
of power, whatever.. Then have an election with these two
parties. Boom. Then watch the money flowin'

♩ ♪ ♫ Of Gucci and Prada I gotta lotta  ♬

♫ Got a Mac 10 and some Pina Colada ♫

♩ ♪ Drinkin, countin the green, chillin with my man Benjamin ♩ ♪

♩ ♪ Drivin by lookin chill, this brother's all fly ♩ ♪

I even wrote the song for it. C'mon

---

In June, a father of six was shot dead on a Monday afternoon in
Evanston, Ill., a suburb 10 miles north of Chicago. [..] With a killer
on the loose and few leads at their disposal, investigators in Cook
County, which includes Evanston, were encouraged when they found two
smartphones alongside the body of the deceased: an iPhone 6 running on
Apple’s iOS 8 operating system, and a Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge running
on Google’s Android operating system. Both devices were passcode
protected.

An Illinois state judge issued a warrant ordering Apple and Google to
unlock the phones and share with authorities any data therein that
could potentially solve the murder. Apple and Google replied, in
essence, that they could not — because they did not know the user’s
passcode.

The homicide remains unsolved. The killer remains at large.  Until
very recently, this situation would not have occurred.  Last
September, Apple and Google, whose operating systems are used in 96
percent of smartphones worldwide, announced that they had
re-engineered their software with “full-disk” encryption, and could no
longer unlock their own products as a result.

We cannot peek into people's minds either

.. or make cows fly. There will be limits to anything we do, and we
must err on the side of privacy.  If Snowden revelations proved
anything, it is the necessity for wide-spread protection against a
rogue state, and I don't just mean North Korea. We also need to accept
tech as part of us / appendages which should not be subject to the
whims of bureucrats. "I want your see inside your head, gimme your
head". What are you - ISIS? Buzz off. 

I believe lefties are getting lost in the wilderness here, replacing
their nanny-state love with an imagined nanny-big-company who they
think will take care of their every need - indirectly. Tech companies
are in the business of making money (thank god) and out-of-control
branches of gov messing shit up worldwide is causing loss of
credibility for them. Instead of pointing the finger to this rampant
decaying cold-war infrastructure, it seems big tech companies are put
on the spot as an easy target. 

---

Question 

Why is Putin still in power?

Supposedly he tried to hand over the reins

As a High Horse I'd like to think he would have at least tried to
empower others; according to this article he tried, with Medvvvvedev,
he failed - siloviki, civiliki, all that. But as things stands now,
his legitimacy being called into question, there is this huge
apparatus around him which is there only to intimidate others, keep
them out of power and themselves in; Kasparov said he could not even
rent office space in Moscow, everyone was too scared to be involved
with him, in any kind of opposition.

I said "an HH would have tried", bcz another HH I looked closely,
Kemal A. of Turkland for example, did try. It is widely known near his
death he was somewhat sad that he'd probably go down history as a
two-bit dictator, he was very concious of this part of his legacy. He
and people around him gave democracy a try, Kemal asked one of his
friends to start a second party but the interest in this other party
was so intense the newly minted Integrators got scared. "The friend"
wasn't even had to be asked to give up his party, he shut it down
himself. 

Now, knowing what we know through the Time for Change model, it is
clear these people's view of democracy was extremely naive. The whole
point of the democratic exercise is, through a few rough measurements,
that parties regularly get the fuck out. No one stays too long / can
stay too long which is a good thing. GDP growth down, stayed in office
too long, popularity waning, you are outa there. The leader could be
Churchill, who won a frickin World War, the electorate does not
care. Bye bye. What Kemal should have done was to actually shut down
his own party, create two parties out of it,  distribute all "the
friends" equally among them, and go to the election (and still stay as
the president, with limited powers). That way there is no stampede to
any one party, and after a while people can start to go back and forth
between these two parties. At first placing a hard-limit on the # of
parties to two can be a wise choice. As long as "the winning
coalition" is as large as possible, people vote, and their votes
count, things are a-ok.

Until there is a true 3W way of governance that is.

---

Hillary Clinton

The Arctic is a unique treasure. Given what we know, it's not worth
the risk of drilling.

Exactly

IMHO drilling in the arctic is government-sponsored terrorism. 

---

Question

Adam and Eve story in religious texts is such bull. How can everyone
be descended from two people?

Scientists would disagree with you

Jeremy Rifkin's excellent video on the subject is here. 

https://youtu.be/l7AWnfFRc7g?t=524

---







