# Appelbaum, The Economists' Hour

Nader [in 65] argued accident victims were hurt not by the initial
crash but by the “second collision” with the interiors of their own
vehicles. Accidents were inevitable, but injuries could be prevented —
and car companies were hardly trying...

Nader’s attack on the car companies was an attack on the primacy of
markets. He was rejecting the idea that unhappy consumers should
simply buy other products. In the idealized world of economic models,
consumer choice was a sufficient mechanism to force improvements in
the safety of automobiles. In a nation with three big automakers,
where driving had long passed from luxury to necessity for most
people, Nader recognized the need to find another way of forcing
companies to make safer products. He recognized the need for
regulation ...

In 1960, the top four firms had brewed 27 percent of the beer; by
1980, the top four firms brewed 67 percent. And economists pointed out
the price of beer had steadily declined.

Consumer advocates like Ralph Nader increasingly took the existence of
large corporations for granted; rather than trying to break companies
apart, they sought to strengthen federal regulation.

The rise of the Japanese economy also began to shift public
debate. Japan treated industrial conglomerates as a source of
strength, not a threat to society and the state. American corporations
argued consolidation was necessary to compete, and some politicians
began to sound sympathetic notes ...

<a name='transistor'/>

In April 1952, dozens of engineers from some of the world’s largest
companies .. boarded buses in New York City and headed [to AT&T]. They
were guests of AT&T, which had patented a new electronic device called
a transistor just a few months earlier, and had invited its potential
rivals to spend nine days learning exactly how they could make
transistors, too. ...

There was a simple explanation for AT&T’s generosity: the federal
government forced the company to share its inventions as part of an
aggressive, carefully considered, and wide-ranging campaign to prevent
large and powerful companies from hoarding innovations...

The mythology of the computer revolution, of libertarians developing
ideas in Silicon Valley garages, is usually narrated without any
mention of the role played by government. It was antitrust regulation
that opened the market and allowed those ideas to bloom.

Limiting the market power of large corporations was a distinctly
American tradition ...

It was the Kennedy admin who started dismantling progressive
taxation, Carter started dismantling econ regulation, Clintons went
even further ...

<a name="corp"/>

Proponents of faith in markets also developed a close relationship
with the corporate elite, which was not as inevitable as it may seem
in retrospect. Conservative economists like [Milton] Friedman and his
close friend George Stigler initially expressed fear of corporate
power and argued that restraining corporate concentration was one of
the few legitimate functions of government. Some conservative
economists still do. But many decided to make common cause with
corporations against government power. ...

Friedman [an economic conservative], and other leading economists,
also expressed views that pained social conservatives, including
support for immigration, the legalization of drugs, and gay
rights. Many social conservatives had hesitations about the 1964
presidential campaign of the libertarian Barry Goldwater; many
economic conservatives were pained by the racist agenda of George
Wallace’s 1968 presidential campaign. Yet by the 1970s the two camps
had found a sufficient patch of common ground: social conservatives
who feared for their moral values and economic conservatives who
feared for their property values both felt profoundly threatened by
the expansion of government. Religious leaders including Robert
Schuller, pastor of the Garden Grove Community Church in Orange
County, synthesized the two strains of conservatism by characterizing
the pursuit of wealth as a moral enterprise. Schuller called his
church a “shopping center for God” and told his congregants, “You have
a God-ordained right to be wealthy







