# Man of Steel.. And the Third Wave?

Changes that happen organically, as most big changes do, can make
their effect be seen, felt, sensed beforehand, to a certain degree,
through various channels in human activity.  I believe we are already
seeing this subliminal ripples of the Third Wave in many places. Most
prominently in art.Which should not be surprising. Art, being a free
form, the channel for free expression, would be the perfect place for
humanity's vision to consciously or subconsciously come out. And of
course by art, I don't necessarily mean some pompous art, painting,
classical music what not. By art, I mean, movies and TV shows.Check
out Smallville for example. Nothing more than 30s Superman story acted
out in 2000 context - right? Not quite. Let's ask this question.. What
makes this story still so compelling? OK, now let's look at the bad
guy... Lex Luthor.What is he? A rich man. He owns a corporation. He
wants power. Money. He doesn't exactly enjoy his work. He was driven
to it by necessity, environment, his father, etc.  But he is part of a
SYSTEM. Ladies and gents who have read Toffler's work.. What does that
sound like?Yes. The bad guy in Superman story is a Second Wave
industrialist.There are million other clues that he is painted this
way. Check this out. He lives in a mansion (industrialist European
style), he plays the piano, enjoys classical works which, we know by
now, are perfect vehicles for an "industrialist" take on art. In a
symphony orchestra, there are work divisions (instruments), a chain of
command (conductor, instrument lead, instrument) where the music is
played to a precise specification which is the perfect recipe for an
industrialist. So Lex Luthor is a solid Second Waver.And then, look at
Superman. Yes, granted that he embodies all the abilities that Second
Waver would salivate for... Strong, fast, smart. But, look carefully
to his daytime persona: Clark Kent is a reporter which means he is a
seeks, stores and manipulates information. That is, he is a knowledge
worker. This works perfectly for Superman persona too in fact, because
even with all his powers Sman still lacks the ability to be everywhere
at once - hence he needs to prioritize, choose, and that's where
information comes in.Clark Kent as Third Waver knowledge worker view
is even more true for the modern reincarnation of the Superman story,
Smallville, where we are now accustomed seeing Clark in regular
clothes, dealing with computers, "borrowing" them for at superspeed,
talking on cell phone with his band of energetic
technophile/hacker/photographer friends while trying to take down Lex
Luther's next evil plan for humanity... and doing this using mostly
information. In a typical Smallville story, the use of a superpower is
usually the last thing that happens.It is my belief that that's
exactly why this particular story can still capture our imagination at
this day and age. Because setting aside all the childhood fantasies
where we want to be a man of steel, run faster than a speeding bullet,
story of Superman and the universe it resides in still contains the
most basic ingredients that we find similar in our longings for a
better future. We don't want to be Second Waver industrialists and we
would like to move on to the Third Wave.In short, we would like to be
Third Wave Supermen.













