# Some Myths about the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict

Jeremy Hammond

[Link](http://www.palestinechronicle.com/top-ten-myths-about-the-israeli-palestinian-conflict/)

Myth 3: "The Arabs missed an opportunity to have their own state in 1947"

The U.N. recommendation to partition Palestine was rejected by the
Arabs. Many commentators today point to this rejection as constituting
a missed “opportunity” for the Arabs to have had their own state. But
characterizing this as an “opportunity” for the Arabs is patently
ridiculous. The Partition plan was in no way, shape, or form an
“opportunity” for the Arabs.

First of all, as already noted, Arabs were a large majority in
Palestine at the time, with Jews making up about a third of the
population by then, due to massive immigration of Jews from Europe (in
1922, by contrast, a British census showed that Jews represented only
about 11 percent of the population).

Additionally, land ownership statistics from 1945 showed that Arabs
owned more land than Jews in every single district of Palestine,
including Jaffa, where Arabs owned 47 percent of the land while Jews
owned 39 percent – and Jaffa boasted the highest percentage of
Jewish-owned land of any district. In other districts, Arabs owned an
even larger portion of the land. At the extreme other end, for
instance, in Ramallah, Arabs owned 99 percent of the land. In the
whole of Palestine, Arabs owned 85 percent of the land, while Jews
owned less than 7 percent, which remained the case up until the time
of Israel’s creation.

Yet, despite these facts, the U.N. partition recommendation had called
for more than half of the land of Palestine to be given to the
Zionists for their “Jewish State”. The truth is that no Arab could be
reasonably expected to accept such an unjust proposal. For political
commentators today to describe the Arabs’ refusal to accept a
recommendation that their land be taken away from them, premised upon
the explicit rejection of their right to self-determination, as a
“missed opportunity” represents either an astounding ignorance of the
roots of the conflict or an unwillingness to look honestly at its
history.

It should also be noted that the partition plan was also rejected by
many Zionist leaders. Among those who supported the idea, which
included David Ben-Gurion, their reasoning was that this would be a
pragmatic step towards their goal of acquiring the whole of Palestine
for a “Jewish State” – something which could be finally accomplished
later through force of arms.

When the idea of partition was first raised years earlier, for
instance, Ben-Gurion had written that “after we become a strong force,
as the result of the creation of a state, we shall abolish partition
and expand to the whole of Palestine”. Partition should be accepted,
he argued, “to prepare the ground for our expansion into the whole of
Palestine”. The Jewish State would then “have to preserve order”, if
the Arabs would not acquiesce, “by machine guns, if necessary.” ...

Myth 10: "The U.S. is an honest broker and has sought to bring about
peace in the Middle East".

Rhetoric aside, the U.S. supports Israel’s policies, including its
illegal occupation and other violations of international humanitarian
law. It supports Israel’s criminal policies financially, militarily,
and diplomatically.

The Obama administration, for example, stated publically that it was
opposed to Israel’s settlement policy and ostensibly “pressured”
Israel to freeze colonization activities. Yet very early on, the
administration announced that it would not cut back financial or
military aid to Israel, even if it defied international law and
continued settlement construction. That message was perfectly well
understood by the Netanyahu government in Israel, which continued its
colonization policies.

To cite another straightforward example, both the U.S. House of
Representatives and the Senate passed resolutions openly declaring
support for Israel’s Operation Cast Lead, despite a constant stream of
reports evidencing Israeli war crimes.

On the day the U.S. Senate passed its resolution “reaffirming the
United States’ strong support for Israel in its battle with Hamas”
(January 8, 2009), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
issued a statement demanding that Israel allow it to assist victims of
the conflict because the Israeli military had blocked access to
wounded Palestinians – a war crime under international law [..]

U.S. financial support for Israel surpasses $3 billion annually. When Israel waged a war to punish the defenseless civilian population of Gaza, its pilots flew U.S.-made F-16 fighter-bombers and Apache helicopter gunships, dropping U.S.-made bombs, including the use of white phosphorus munitions in violation of international law.

U.S. diplomatic support for Israeli crimes includes its use of the
veto power in the U.N. Security Council. When Israel was waging a
devastating war against the civilian population and infrastructure of
Lebanon in the summer of 2006, the U.S. vetoed a cease-fire
resolution.

As Israel was waging Operation Cast Lead, the U.S. delayed the passage
of a resolution calling for an end to the violence, and then abstained
rather than criticize Israel once it finally allowed the resolution to
be put to a vote.

When the U.N. Human Rights Council officially adopted the findings and
recommendations of its investigation into war crimes during Operation
Cast Lead, headed up by Richard Goldstone, the U.S. responded by
announcing its intention to block any effort to have the Security
Council similarly adopt its conclusions and recommendations. The
U.S. Congress passed a resolution rejecting the Goldstone report
because it found that Israel had committed war crimes.

Through its virtually unconditional support for Israel, the U.S. has
effectively blocked any steps to implement the two-state solution to
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The so-called “peace process” has
for many decades consisted of U.S. and Israeli rejection Palestinian
self-determination and blocking of any viable Palestinian state.

