Spaceship Game Played through Occulus Rift Brings a Man To Tears

Link

After a bit of setup and jumping through various Rift demos, the
Elite: Dangerous servers came back online after receiving a major
update; opening their doors to the world (and me) as part of the
Standard Beta. Just moments into the multiplayer game, I realised
it. E:D in the Oculus Rift DK2 is simply the single best gaming
experience I have had to date in my 29 year life. I sat on this
statement this morning, comparing memories which may have been better
in both indie and triple A titles, but E:D plus DK2 beat them all by
comparisons, hands down. So, what floored me and evoked surprise and
emotions I never thought would surface while gaming? Initially, it was
the sight of a rotating space station with a planet far below and
trails of smoke from recent passers by which made the entire scene
electric to me. I just sat there and soaked it in as the small beeps
and sounds of my ship ticking over reminded me that I, too, was alive
and part of it all. As I took a flyby of a floating city and docking
station, something about the detail level and ethereal combination of
elements caused an involuntary tear to roll down my right check in
front of more Twitch viewers than I thought I would ever have. I have
never felt that in a game. I know others will feel this with me, in
time. I realised am no longer waiting for change, in fact. The world
-has- changed. It has changed forever.

--

Occulus Rift is the VR headset company recently acquired by
Facebook. Trailer video from the game Elite: Dangerous is here. Looks
good.

