# Eat Yourself Slim

The theory of slimming based on the low-calorie approach is without
doubt the greatest scientific “fudge”of the twentieth century...

Up to then I had led a fairly conventional social and professional
lifestyle and my tendency to put on weight had seemed to level
off. My”overeating”, if indeed I overate at all, was only very
occasional and tended to occur in a family context. When you come, as
I do, from South West France, you have been brought up to value
gastronomic cuisine as part of your cultural heritage. I had long
since given up sugar, or at least, sugar in coffee. I never ate
potatoes, claiming to be allergic to them, and, apart from wine, very
rarely touched alcohol.  My excess stone had been acquired over a
period of ten years, quite gradually. When I looked around me I felt
no more overweight than the average; in fact, it seemed to me I
compared quite well with other people.

Then, overnight, my professional circumstances changed. I was
appointed to a new post with an international dimension at the
European headquarters of the American multinational company I worked
for... But three months after taking up my new post I had put on no
less than a further stone..

Like everyone else, I started off by trying to apply the usual
weight-loss rules and, like everyone else, I became thoroughly
disillusioned with the lack of positive results.

But soon afterwards, as luck would have it, I came across a general
practitioner with a keen interest in nutritional problems. He gave me
some advice, and the guidelines he suggested to me seemed to call into
question the fundamental basis of traditional dietetics.  It was not
long before I was achieving very promising results. So I then decided
to delve further into the theory...

In 1930 two American doctors, Newburgh and Johnson, of the University
of Michigan, suggested in one of their papers that ”obesity results
from a diet too high in calories, rather than from any metabolic
deficiency". Their study on energy balance was based on very limited
data and, above all, had been conducted over too short a period to
deserve serious scientific acceptance. This did not prevent their
study from being immediately and widely acclaimed as irrefutable
scientific truth, and it has been treated as ”gospel” ever since...

The first question is: When the consumption of calories is reduced,
why does weight loss not follow? Actually, weight loss does occur, but
only temporarily. This is, in fact, where Newburgh and Johnson went
wrong, in that they collected their data over much too short a period
of time.














