# The Dangers of Farming

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmental_impact_of_agriculture)

The environmental effects of pesticides describe the broad series of
consequences of using pesticides. The unintended consequences of
pesticides is one of the main drivers of the negative impact of modern
industrial agriculture on the environment. Pesticides, because they
are toxic chemicals meant to kill pest species, can affect non-target
species, such as plants, animals and humans. Over 98% of sprayed
insecticides and 95% of herbicides reach a destination other than
their target species, because they are sprayed or spread across entire
agricultural fields.[12] Other agrochemicals, such as fertilizers, can
also have negative effects on the environment.

The negative effects of pesticides are not just in the area of
application. Runoff and pesticide drift can carry pesticides into
distant aquatic environments or other fields, grazing areas, human
settlements and undeveloped areas..

Soil degradation is the decline in soil quality that can be a result
of many factors, especially from agriculture. Soils hold the majority
of the world's biodiversity, and healthy soils are essential for food
production and adequate water supply.[43] Common attributes of soil
degradation can be salting, waterlogging, compaction, pesticide
contamination, a decline in soil structure quality, loss of fertility,
changes in soil acidity, alkalinity, salinity, and erosion. Soil
erosion is the wearing away of topsoil by water, wind, or farming
activities.[44] Topsoil is very fertile, which makes it valuable to
farmers growing crops.[44] Soil degradation also has a huge impact on
biological degradation, which affects the microbial community of the
soil and can alter nutrient cycling, pest and disease control, and
chemical transformation properties of the soil.[

