# Tax Avoidance, Trickery

[J. Cochrane](https://johnhcochrane.blogspot.com/2017/10/corporate-tax-burden-again.html)

I think every economist in [the tax] debate admits, if some
reluctantly, that corporations pay no taxes.

[Financial Times](https://ftalphaville.ft.com/2017/10/31/2195336/the-most-elegant-corporate-tax-reform/)

American politicians are thinking about changing how they tax
businesses. There are good reasons to reform the existing system, but
unfortunately the proposals under consideration miss the mark.

An elegant solution, first seriously advocated by Dean Baker, should
get more attention. Instead of trying to collect regular payments from
businesses based on reported profits, the government should just
capitalise its expected tax take up front by demanding nonvoting
equity stakes.

People form businesses to make money. Unsurprisingly, governments want
to tax these people.

The question is how. Taxing income paid to workers is pretty
straightforward. Taxing explicit payments to investors — dividends and
interest — should also be easy to do. Same for capital gains when
stocks and bonds are sold at a profit.

But a lot of the value created by businesses never is paid out in
these ways. Companies might reinvest in growth, or retain earnings by
accumulating financial assets, or boost their net worth by paying down
their debt. The traditional answer is for governments to tax corporate
profits as a complement to other taxes on individuals.

This worked reasonably well in the past, but the share of total tax
paid by corporations has steadily dropped in America. [..]

One big reason is tax avoidance via “globalisation”. Just create a
subsidiary in a favourable jurisdiction, put your “intellectual
property” in the subsidiary, and have the subsidiary charge high
licensing fees to the rest of the company. Presto! All the profits end
up untaxed. (For much more on this, including the impact on the
balance of payments, you should read Brad Setser.)

Baker’s insight is that every stream of payments can be turned into an
asset. The government’s legal claim on corporate profits should
therefore be equivalent to some proportion of common
stock. Shareholders and managers ought to be indifferent between
today’s world, and a world where they are diluted by a new share class
gifted to the government in exchange for no longer having to pay tax.

There would be other benefits from this reform both to companies and
to the economy as a whole. As Baker puts it:

"There is no way for a corporation to escape its liability. A portion
of whatever profit it makes will automatically go to the
government. It also eliminates the enormous cost and waste associated
with complying with or avoiding the corporate income tax (there would
be some start-up and monitoring costs, of course, but nothing like
what current enforcement requires). And federal revenues will go up,
because companies will have incentive to do what is most profitable,
not what minimizes their tax liability"

The Road to Ruin, J. Rickards, Solution 

The solution in the works for G7 nations is world taxation. This
starts with a centralized tax information database shared by developed
nations. [..] The new world tax system being planned is quite
sophisticated. The problem tax authorities have today is they can see
the side of a transaction conducted in their country, yet cannot see
the other side because the counterparty is in another country. Tax
authorities can submit information-sharing requests to other
jurisdictions. Still, case-by-case inquiries are cumbersome and
slow. The new world tax system is designed to decrease opacity and
ease processing. World taxation is an automated digital auditor.

Each taxpayer and its affiliates are assigned a unique identification
number. Each transaction type—royalties, interest, dividends, et
cetera—is assigned an identifier. The counterparty to each transaction
is identified using its unique code.

All corporate transactions are tagged with these digital identifiers
and submitted to a shared database. This is like a tag-and-release
marine mission aimed at great white sharks. The shark may look
fearsome after release, yet authorities always know where to find it.

The world tax database will be available to all participants in the
system including the G20 nations. The database would be housed on
high-capacity computers using sophisticated algorithms and predictive
analytics. Like the shark, companies could run, but no longer hide.

<a name="doubleDip"/>

The Road to Ruin, J. Rickards, The Double-Dip

For a decade at the start of my career, I was international tax
counsel to Citibank, then the world’s most powerful private
bank. Citibank had branches in more countries than the U.S. Foreign
Service had embassies. The bank, under the direction of legendary CEO
Walter Wriston, was a bigger platform than the Department of State.

In the early 1980s, my colleagues and I prepared a U.S. income tax
return that showed zero liability at a time when Citibank was highly
profitable. Wriston objected. He said it was unseemly for the largest
bank in the United States to pay no U.S. tax. He instructed us to pay
a small amount. “You don’t need to pay a lot; just two or three
percent. It looks bad if we pay nothing.”

We mastered the art of paying no taxes, but paying some tax was a
challenge. There were many levers at our disposal. We used foreign tax
credits, investment tax credits, or depreciation on Boeing 747s and
the Alaska pipeline, which we legally owned and leased to users. We
also used tax-free municipal bonds and discretionary loan loss
reserves to dial down tax liability. [..] The Cayman Islands and
Netherlands Antilles also came in handy.

Our challenge was that Citibank’s tax return was a finely tuned
machine. Once you moved one lever, another lever might move on its own
due to the complex interaction of credits, deductions, and elections
in the Internal Revenue Code. We spent an entire year tuning the
machine; now we needed to dismantle one small part without ruining the
works. We had time and talent to pay the tax. Yet the lesson was not
lost on me. For large, complex companies, paying taxes is not a
requirement; it’s optional [..]

Tax leasing is [..also ..] an effective tool. Countries have different
rules for deciding when a financing transaction is a loan or a
lease. Equipment deals can be structured as a loan in one country (to
deduct interest) and a lease in another country (to deduct
depreciation). The parties double-dip on deductions with one piece of
equipment.

The loan-lease double-dip is combined with tax treaty back-to-back
structures to obliterate taxes in multiple jurisdictions. As tax
counsel to Citibank, I saw triple-dip leases, where a single Boeing
747 was written off in South Africa, the United Kingdom, and Australia
at the same time.
