# Week 36

[From his speech to German left party SPD] But look beyond this, and
there is a bigger issue for left parties to deal with, one that they
unfortunately helped to create. Back in the 1970s, a period that now
seems quite benign, corporate profits were very low, labor’s share of
income was very high, and inflation was rising. We were told that this
was unsustainable, and new institutions and policies were constructed
to make sure that this particular mix of outcomes would never happen
again.

In this regard we were singularly successful. Today, corporate profits
have never been higher, labor’s share of national income has almost
never been lower, and inflation has given way to deflation. So are we
happier for this change?

What we have done over the past thirty years is to build a creditor’s
paradise of positive real interest rates, low inflation, open markets,
beaten-down unions, and a retreating state — all policed by unelected
economic officials in central banks and other unelected institutions
that have only one target: to keep such a creditor’s paradise going.

In such a world, why would you, the average worker, ever get a pay
rise? Indeed, is it any wonder that inequality is everywhere an issue?
In Europe this plays out at the national level, and at the
international level of creditor countries (good) and debtor countries
(bad), where the rights of the creditors must be protected and the
mantra that “you must pay your debts” must be respected.

Yet even in terms of simple welfare economics, this is nonsense. If
the cost of squeezing the debtor is to keep her in debt servitude, or
if the losses to the creditors are less than the costs of servicing
the debt in perpetuity, then default is efficient, if not moral.

Today it is a profound irony that European social democrats worry
deeply, as they should, about the investor protection clauses embedded
in the proposed Transatlantic Investment Treaty with the US, and yet
they demand enforcement of exactly the same creditor protections on
their fellow Europeans without pausing for breath for the money they
“lent” to them to bail out their own banking systems’ errant lending
decisions.

Something has gone badly wrong when social democracy thinks this is
OK. It is not. Because it begs the fundamental question, “what are you
for — if you are for this?” The German Social Democrats, for we are
all the heirs of Rosa Luxemburg, today stand as the joint enforcers of
a creditor’s paradise. Is that who you really want to be? Modern
European history has turned many times on the choices of the SPD. This
is one of those moments.

It’s great that my book has helped remind you of the poverty of these
ideas. But the point is to recover your voice, not just your
historical memory. Your vote share isn’t going down because you are
not shadowing the CDU enough. Its going down because if all you do is
that, why should anyone vote for you at all?

I hope that reading my book reminds the SPD of one thing: that the
reason they exist is to do more than simply to enforce a creditor’s
paradise in Europe.

Yes

As interesting as CDU's loss of votes and rise of AfD, there is the
hollowing out of the left in Germany.

---

NYT

Even as the number of working people [in Germany] has increased, so
has the number of people relying on government benefits. Since 2012,
an additional 2.1 million people have turned to government
assistance. In all, 7.2 percent of the population relies on it.

Many are the working poor whose income are not enough to sustain
them. More than seven million people hold so-called mini-jobs,
part-time positions without any contribution to health insurance.

Yes

Very important to notice, Germany does not have universal health
coverage, as in Canada, Australia. Insurance lobby is influential
here, there is a sort of individual mandate, like Obamacare (an
overengineered piece of shit, whose architect, aptly named Mr. Gruber,
occasionally comes up in the news for fraud charges).

While we are on subject of improvements: ARD payments scheme needs
dismantling. Almost everyone I talked to about this agree. The
integrators all over the world need to understand, noone is scared of
you. And a single broadcaster, in today's world, will not hold back
any mythical return to despotism. The job of government is protect
borders, make common person's life as transaction-free as possible,
providing no-strings-attached services, not creating the conditions
where organizations keep extracting money from its citizens who are
mostly unwilling or don't care.

---

Question

GR deep state wanted a grand-coalition between CDU and SPD. Was that the right move?

No

When two grand parties are in government, the protest votes have
nowhere to go, so this time it went to Nazis. I am not sure why the DS
wanted the grand coalition.. I think back then there were some
protests, they were worried, wanted garner "as much legitimacy as
possible in government". But it backfired. Now SPD says they are going
into opposition - right move.

---

Question

How could CDU suffer losses in the East, Merkel's constituents are there!

Wrong

Her constituents are the hipsters in Berlin. Really. If she were not
the Chancellor, I could definitely see her working in one of the tech
startups in Berlin. BTW, being mostly neutral / vehemently for, as in
crazy supportive of refugees is a common stance seen among certain
type of affluent person in GR / hipster Berliner.

---

Did the Euro have a hand in Greece's demise?

Yes

Once in Euro, debtors figured now Greeks cannot devalue (pay back the
debt in depreciated Euros, since they do not own the printing press
now) and since their risk would still be considered "less safe" on
paper, they'd have to offer better rates. Win-win in their
minds. Naturally the Greek gov had huge influx of cash through its
bonds that helped it pay for public services.

---

Question

Was Euro an export advantage for economically stronger countries,
e.g. Netherlands, Germany?

Yes

A currency's strength reflects the confidence in that country, but
after Euro, stronger countries were in the same pool with
medium-strength countries, Euro's price reflected that, it became
cheaper for Netherlands, Germany. Cheap currency = huge export
advantage. Reverse was true for Greece, Euro become an export
disadvantage for them.

---

Question

Then Greece should not have entered the Euro?

Not before they were ready

Huge influx of cash into government bonds covered up a lot of their
weaknesses, such as an inability to collect taxes. Why try to collect
taxes when money is raining down on you? But at the end of the day,
bad governance is bad governance. It'd all blow up at some point.

---

Question

How do ppl make money from government bonds? The returns are meager.

Leverage

10-1 leverage turns 3% into 30%. Futures contracts, which can be based
on bonds,  have implicit leverage (but they are traded on open
exchanges -which Dodd-Frank prefers-, they are cleared daily, so they
are safe). Banks failed pre-2008 because they took huge leverage (not
on open exchanges) trying to make money in low rate environment,
creating excessive risk.

---

Yoshua Bengio (an AI expert)

"AI is a technology that naturally lends itself to a winner take all,"
Bengio said. "The country and company that dominates the technology
will gain more power with time. More data and a larger customer base
gives you an advantage that is hard to dislodge. Scientists want to go
to the best places. The company with the best research labs will
attract the best talent. It becomes a concentration of wealth and
power."

Hmmm

Now this is something you can take little more seriously than all that
Skynet bullshit.

But he is also wrong. To understand why, you need to have the view of
an outside AI practitioner - not of the insider-academic,
someone.. well like me. The techniques, the tools bleed out, no, gush
out of these companies like nothing else you've ever seen. In fact
they (especially Google) make sure they share the techniques because
they want developer mindshare, they want ppl who will use their tools,
ergo their cloud services, etc., they want to prove they are "da shit"
in AI, so they can entice more researchers toward themselves. Awesome,
for me. Can they get all great researchers? All developers? No.

That leaves the so-called "data advantage". Data can make a
difference, better data = better models [geek] especially for
non-linear models as all the good ones are [/geek] But there are too
many hands involved to make anything good or neferious happen, plus
these companies follow the law (much better than the government it
turned out after the NSA revelations) ensuring things cannot go
awry. People talk shit about Facebook, but we know for fact that their
rules against any violation is draconian. You use FB databases to
check out that ex-girlfriend, or do any other weirdo shit, your ass is
grass. That same day.

So I see about zero signs,for any bad smells in tech today. There's
bunch of bunk, it's probably "old media" trying to create an illlusion
of SV because their scared senseless abt losing their media share.

---

Question

Did EU, its intelligence services engineer "a coup" to oust the previous President Yanukovych in Ukraine?

No

That was US + CIA (pretty sure WH did not have a clue). Why did they
do it? What interest did US have in Ukraine? None. They did it simply
to f--k with Putin's mind, then they watched him run around like a
scared little bitch. Crimea was annexed, but, RU soldiers were already
there.. They were inside the barracks, they just stepped outside the
barracks. No major change. It was fun, I bet ppl at CIA had bunch of
gas, but other events took place after that, civilians died, do the
instigators care about that? No.

Plus US managed to insert a bigger wedge between RU / EU, good
strategy for them bcz US does not want EU / RU raproachement.

Obviously RU state is a  sad sack of kleptocrats that needs to
democratise, ASAP. That is a whole seperate issue.

---

Question

How much effect did Russia have on US elections through FB fake-news,
hacking?

None

They surely tried, but their effect? Nada. Most of the hoopla is
purported by media 1) to hit Trump 2) to hit new media. I do like
seeing Trump cringe of course he would not give an inch "to our side"
on climate, but it is what it is.

---

Systemic Risk Council

The Council believes that it is not possible to develop a single
simple regulatory metric that would pass the test of time and
withstand regulatory arbitrage. For that reason, it opposes exempting
large and complex firms from other prudential regulations if they
exceed a specified leverage ratio. [..]

The Council worries that the UST Report proposal excluding certain
types of assets from total assets in the SLR would prove to be the
thin end of a very thick wedge.

Interesting

They are not happy. Any comment around leverage rings alarm bells in
my head. Post-2008 the understanding is banks are not there to make
money. They are there not to f--k shit up.

---
