# The Logic of Political Survival

Bruce B. de Mesquita

We believe.. that the infinite variety of real-world institutional
arrangements can be distilled into just two criti- cal dimensions: the
selectorate and the winning coalition. By mapping a diverse set of
political considerations onto the two dimensions of selec- torate size
and winning-coalition size, we sacrifice detail and precision, but
gain the possibility of explaining a rich variety of political phenom-
ena with a relatively simple theoretical structure...

The important aspect of being in the selectorate is that membership
conveys the opportunity to become a member of a winning coalition. To
be sure, membership in the selectorate does not necessar- ily make the
prospects of joining a winning coalition good, but it does raise those
prospects above zero and, in democracies, up to levels as high as 50
percent.

We define the selectorate as the set of people whose endowments
include the qualities or characteristics institutionally required to
choose the government’s leadership and necessary for gaining access to
private benefits doled out by the government’s leadership. All
selectorate mem- bers within a polity, therefore, share certain common
characteristics.  Those characteristics, however, can differ across
political systems, so that an individual can qualify for selectorate
membership in one polity and yet have no possibility of qualifying in
another...

The winning coalition is defined as a subset of the selectorate of
sufficient size such that the subset’s support endows the leadership
with political power over the remainder of the selectorate as well as
over the disenfranchised members of the society. How many supporters
are required to form a winning coalition depends on the mix of
qualities required for membership in the winning coalition and on the
degree to which those qualities relate to lumpy or broadly distributed
characteristics within the selectorate. In exchange for their support,
members of the winning coalition receive a share of whatever private
benefits the incumbent doles out to her supporters...

Afghanistan

Direct and indirect military intervention [in a foreign country]
provide mechanisms through which institutions can be
improved. Unfortunately, the political incentives of leaders from
large-coalition interventionist systems do not promote the
establishment of large-coalition systems abroad. Unless the foreign
policy goals of the foreign state coincide with those of the
nation-building state—as was the case in the two great exceptions,
opposition to communism for Japan and West Germany—military
intervention will not fulfill its potential for institutional reform.

Events in Afghanistan reinforce this point. The United States
intervened militarily in Afghanistan in 2002 to support the rebels of
the North Alliance in removing the Taliban regime because of the
Taliban’s support for international terrorism. Although the United
States relied heavily on the troops of the North Alliance to defeat
the Taliban, the United States still took a dominant role in shaping
Afghanistan’s new government. The United States chose to support an
interim government led by Hamid Karzai. These arrangements paid lip
service to greater inclusiveness, because the government requires the
support of tribal leaders and offers the prospect of future
elections. Yet, rather than having the leader rely directly on the
independent support of members of a mass electorate, the reliance on
tribal leaders created a hierarchical aggregation of support. The
chosen institutions required the leader to retain the support of a
small number of people from the small pool of tribal leaders. Even if
elections are held, they are likely to be dominated by bloc
voting.While such a small-W, small-S system does not encourage the
promotion of public welfare, it does require the leader to spend
considerable resources to reward supporters. The low loyalty norm
created by small-S, small-W systems makes leaders most ready to trade
policy for aid, and hence most likely to do the bidding of the United
States...

<a name='war'/>

War

The institutional arrangements within democracies mean that the
survival of democratic leaders depends more on policy success than on
the provision of private goods to supporters. Given this, once engaged
in a war, democratic leaders typically make every effort to
win.. Since the survival of democratic leaders depends on public
policy success, they typically want to avoid long and costly wars.

Construction

The ease with which graft can be hidden in construction projects makes
this industrial activity unusually attractive as a way for leaders to
indulge in cronyism and nepotism. Every society requires construction,
of course, and not all of it involves the misappropriation of
funds. But there is sufficient anecdotal evidence to suggest that
construction involves an unusual degree of corrupt practices.

We test the relationship between our indicator Construction and the
effects of W and W/S using our standard models. The selectorate model
performs well when it comes to assessing Construction, though the
substantive impact is more modest than for corruption. W by itself is
significantly associated with a dampening of construction projects and
remains significant after we control for other factors. WS:Income, in
contrast, turns out to contribute significantly to increasing
construction.

References

[The Logic of Political Survival Code](the-logic-of-political-survival-mesquita-code.html)

