# 10 Myths about Israel

By Ilan Pappe

Myth: The Jews Were a People Without Land

The claim .. is that Palestine was a land without people, goes hand in
hand with the claim that the Jews were a people without a land...

The myth insists that the Jews who arrived in 1882 were the
descendants of the Jews expelled by the Romans around 70 CE. The
counterargument questions this genealogical connection. Quite a hefty
scholarly effort has shown that the Jews of Roman Palestine remained
on the land and were first converted to Christianity and then to
Islam. ...

<a name='land'/>

[Some also say] Palestine was an empty land [when Jews 'came
back']. In this story, by 1800 Palestine had become a desert, where
farmers who did not belong there somehow cultivated parched land that
was not theirs. The same land appeared to be an island, with a
significant Jewish population .. . Every passing year the land became
more barren, deforestation increased, and farmland turned to desert.

Promoted through an official state website this fabricated picture is
unprecedented. ..  Quite a few [researchers], such as David Grossman
(the demographer not the famous author), Amnon Cohen, and Yehoushua
Ben-Arieh, have indeed successfully challenged it. Their research
shows that, over the centuries, Palestine, rather than being a desert,
was a thriving Arab society—mostly Muslim, predominantly rural, but
with vibrant urban centers

Myth: Zionism is Judaism

The new post-1904 fixation on Palestine as the only territory in which
Zionism could be implemented was reinforced by the growing power of
Christian Zionism in Britain and in Europe. Theologians who studied
the Bible and evangelical archeologists who excavated “the Holy Land”
welcomed the settlement of Jews as confirming their religious belief
that the “Jewish return” would herald the unfolding of the divine
promise for the end of time. The return of the Jews was the precursor
of the return of the Messiah and the resurrection of the dead. The
Zionist project of colonizing Palestine was well served by this
esoteric religious belief. However, behind these religious visions lay
classical anti-Semitic sentiments. For pushing Jewish communities in
the direction of Palestine was not only a religious imperative; it
also helped in the creation of a Europe without Jews. It therefore
represented a double gain: getting rid of the Jews in Europe, and at
the same time fulfilling the divine scheme in which the Second Coming
was to be precipitated by the return of the Jews to Palestine (and
their subsequent conversion to Christianity or their roasting in Hell
should they refuse)

The interpretation of the Bible as the divine justification for
Zionism helped the socialists to reconcile their adherence to the
universal values of solidarity and equality with the colonization
project of dispossession. Indeed, since colonization was the main goal
of Zionism, one has to ask what kind of socialism this was. After all,
in the collective memory of many, the golden period of Zionism is
associated with the collectivist, egalitarian life embodied in the
establishment of the Kibbutz. This form of life lasted long after
Israel was founded and it attracted young people from all over the
world who came to volunteer and experience communism in its purest
form. Very few of them realized, or could have known, that most of the
Kibbutzim were built on destroyed Palestinian villages, whose
populations had been expelled in 1948 ...

Israeli educational textbooks now carry the same message of the right
to the land based on a biblical promise. According to a letter sent by
the education ministry in 2014 to all schools in Israel: “the Bible
provides the cultural infrastructure of the state of Israel, in it our
right to the land is anchored.” Bible studies are now a crucial and
expanded component of the curriculum—with a particular focus on the
Bible as recording an ancient history that justifies the claim to the
land. The biblical stories and the national lessons that can be
learned from them are fused together with the study of the Holocaust
and of the creation of the state of Israel in 1948. There is a direct
line from this 2014 letter back to the evidence given by David
Ben-Gurion in 1937 to the Royal Peel Commission (the British inquiry
set up to try to find a solution to the emerging conflict). In the
public discussions on the future of Palestine, Ben-Gurion waved a copy
of the Bible at the members of the committee, shouting: '... our right
to Palestine does not come from the Mandate Charter, the Bible is our
Mandate Charter.' ...

Something else happened in the period between November 29, 1947 (when
the UN Resolution was adopted) and May 15, 1948 (when the British
Mandate ended) that helped the Zionist movement to better prepare for
the days ahead. As the end of the Mandate approached, the British
forces withdrew into the port of Haifa. Any territory they left, the
military forces of the Jewish community took over, clearing out the
local population even before the end of the Mandate. The process began
in February 1948 with a few villages, and culminated in April with the
cleansing of Haifa, Jaffa, Safad, Beisan, Acre, and Western
Jerusalem. These last stages had already been systematically planned
under the master plan, Plan D, prepared alongside the high command of
the Haganah, the main military wing of the Jewish community. The plan
included the following clear reference to the methods to be employed
in the process of cleansing the population:

>Destruction of villages (setting fire to, blowing up, and planting
 mines in the debris), especially those population centers which are
 difficult to control continuously …
>
>Mounting search and control operations according to the following
 guidelines: encirclement of the village and conducting a search
 inside it. In the event of resistance, the armed force must be
 destroyed and the population must be expelled outside the borders of
 the state.

How could the small Israeli army engage in large-scale ethnic
cleansing operations while, from May 15, also being confronted with
regular forces from the Arab world? First of all, it is noteworthy
that the urban population (apart from three towns: Lydd, Ramleh, and
Bir Saba) had already been cleansed before the Arab armies
arrived. Second, the rural Palestinian area was already under Israeli
control, and the confrontations with the Arab armies occurred on
borders of these rural areas not inside them. In one case where the
Jordanians could have helped the Palestinians, in Lydd and Ramleh, the
British commander of the Jordanian army, Sir John Glubb, decided to
withdraw his forces and avoided confrontation with the Israeli army.
Finally, the Arab military effort was woefully ineffective and short
lived. After some success in the first three weeks, its presence in
Palestine was a shambolic story of defeat and hasty withdrawal. After
a short lull towards the end of 1948, the Israeli ethnic cleansing
thus continued unabated ...

Yet within weeks of the joint signature on the White House lawn [of
93 Oslo Accord], the writing was on the wall. By the end of September,
the Accord’s vague principles had already been translated into a new
geopolitical reality on the ground under the terms of what was called
the Oslo II (or Taba4) agreement. This included not just partitioning
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip between “Jewish” and “Palestinian”
zones, but partitioning further all the Palestinian areas into small
cantons or Bantustans. The peace cartography of 1995 amounted to a
bisected series of Palestinian zones that resembled, in the words of
quite a few commentators, a Swiss cheese.

Once this program became clear, the decline of the negotiations was
swift ...

Myth around The Oslo Accord 

In May 2001, [W] appointed Senator Robert Mitchell as a special envoy
to the Middle East. Mitchell produced a report ... [where] he blamed
Ariel Sharon for provoking unrest by visiting and violating the
sacredness of the al-Aqsa mosque and the holy places of Islam.

In short, even the disempowered Arafat realized that the Israeli
interpretation of Oslo in 2000 meant the end of any hope for normal
Palestinian life and doomed the Palestinians to more suffering in the
future. This scenario was not only morally wrong in his eyes, but
would also, as he was well aware, strengthen the hand of those who
regarded the armed struggle against Israel as the only way to liberate
Palestine. At any given moment, Israel could have stopped the Second
Intifada, but the army needed a show of 'success'; only when this was
achieved through the barbaric operation of 'Defensive Shield' in 2002
and the building of the infamous 'apartheid wall' did they succeed
temporarily in quelling the uprising ...

Myths On Gaza

<a name="hamas"/>

Hamas became a significant player on the ground in part thanks to the
Israeli policy of encouraging the construction of an Islamic
educational infrastructure [most likely teaching a variation of
Ottocuck Romanized Islam] in Gaza as a counterbalance to the grip of
the secular Fatah movement on the local population.

In 2009, Avner Cohen, who served in the Gaza Strip around the time
Hamas began to gain power in the late 1980s, and was responsible for
religious affairs in the occupied territories, told the Wall Street
Journal, 'the Hamas, to my great regret, is Israel’s creation.' ...


