# Terry Jones' Barbarians

'[The propaganda goes] The Romans kept the Barbarians at bay as long
as they could, but finally they were engulfed, and the savage hordes
over-ran the Empire, destroying the cultural achievements of
centuries. The light of reason and civilization was virtually snuffed
out by the Barbarian hordes who swarmed across Europe, annihilating
everything the Romans had put in place, sacking Rome itself and
consigning Europe to the Dark Ages. The Barbarians brought only chaos
and ignorance, until the Renaissance rekindled the fires of Roman
learning and art'.

It's a familiar story, but it's codswallop. The unique feature of Rome
was not its arts or its science or its philosophical culture, not its
attachment to law, its care for humanity or its sophisticated
political culture. In fact, in all these areas it was equalled or even
surpassed by peoples whom it conquered. The unique feature of Rome was
that it had the world's first professional army...

We actually owe far more to the so-called barbarians' than we do to
the men in togas. And the fact that we still think of the Celts, the
Huns, the Vandals, the Goths, the Visigoths and so on as barbarians'
means that we have all fallen hook, line and sinker for Roman
propaganda. We are still letting the Romans define our world and our
view of history. In the last 30 years, however, the story has begun to
change. Archaeological discoveries have shed new light on the ancient
texts that have survived, and this has led to new interpretations of
the past.

We now know that the Roman Empire brought much of the development of
science and mathematics to a grinding halt for about 1500 years, and
that a great deal of what was known and achieved before Rome took over
had to be relearned and rediscovered much more recently. Rome used its
army to eliminate the cultures that surrounded it, and paid its
soldiers with the wealth it took from them. It Romanized' these
conquered societies and left as little record of them as possible. The
truth is that much of what we understand to be Roman civilization' was
plundered from the Barbarian world. The Romans conquered with swords,
shields, armour and artillery that were copied from the people they
fought; their cities were built with the loot from the wealthier
cultures that surrounded them; and as for the famous Roman roads,
well, read on ... Sadly, many of the engineering and scientific
achievements of the Barbarian world were destroyed so completely that,
even when evidence of them turned up, it was either disbelieved or the
achievements attributed to the Romans themselves. Now, however, we are
beginning to realize that the story of a descent from the light of
Rome to the darkness of Barbarian dominion is completely false ...

What we know of Celtic law comes from the Irish Brehon Laws, the rules
of a legal system of self-help without courts or police, and which
depended on communal respect. These laws respect individuals more than
property, treat contracts as sacred, impose duties of hospitality and
protection to strangers, and assume that women have equal property
rights to men and can divorce. It seems certain that these laws are of
great antiquity. They list 14 grounds on which a woman can demand a
divorce, including being treated badly in public by her husband and
being beaten by him. Beating your wife, if you were Roman, was about
as significant as breaking your crockery: she was property. In these
Celtic law codes a wife has the same rights as anybody else, so if she
was beaten, there were fines and tables of compensation... In Rome,
rape was not a crime against a woman, but an injury to her male
guardian, an offence against his property ...

Tacitus put a savage condemnation of the conquest into the mouth of
one British leader [Britain was partially invaded by Romans then]. His
words echo with a chill that transcends the centuries and reverberates
today: 'Robbers of the world; having exhausted the land by their
universal plunder, they rifle the deep. If their enemy is rich, they
are rapacious; if he is poor, they lust for power; neither the east
nor the west has been able to satisfy them. Alone among men they covet
with equal eagerness poverty and riches. Robbery, slaughter and
plunder they misname empire; they make a wilderness and call it peace' ...

The great Greek doctor Galen, who lived in the second century AD,
explained why malnutrition was so widespread in rural communities. It
was, he said, all the fault of the rapacious townsmen: The
city-dwellers, as was their practice, collected and stored enough corn
for all the coming year immediately after the harvest. They carried
off all the wheat, the barley, the beans and the lentils and left what
remained to the country-folk.' Few Roman cities could supply their own
needs; they had to ransack the countryside in order to keep their
larders supplied. In this way, the 10 per cent of Romans who lived in
the cities exploited the 90 per cent who lived outside ...

Since the [Roman] troops took at least 70 per cent of the budget,
there was a considerable shortfall. It was made up by raising the poll
tax – bad news for the less well off. So long as Rome was expanding,
there was no great problem. The army paid for itself in captured land,
captured booty and captured slaves to act as the cheapest of cheap
labour. Slaves [servi] are so called because commanders generally sell
the people they capture and thereby save [servare] them instead of
killing them. The word for property in slaves [mancipia] is derived
from the fact that they are captured from the enemy by force of arms
[manu capiuntur]' ...

The sacks of Rome by the Goths and Vandals were not great acts of
destruction. The Goths destroyed only one building, the Vandals none
at all. Both were armies of Christians. But the Roman Empire itself
had already adopted a particular form of Christianity – Catholicism –
and, being Rome, it was trying to impose this form of the religion on
everyone else. The Catholic Church triumphed, and – again in the great
Roman tradition – did all it could to remake people and history as it
wanted them. The Church decided which documents would survive and
which would not: all our sources come to us from medieval Catholic
copyists. So again, our picture of the past has been given to us in a
very particular way ...

<a name='religion'/>

The Catholic version of Jesus, with the same nature as God himself,
was a kind of transcendent emperor. A mosaic in the apse of the church
of Santa Pudenziana in Rome from about 390 shows Theodosius' new
imperial Christ, haloed, bearded like Jupiter and, like the old Roman
god, sitting on a throne facing the onlooker. He has replaced Jupiter
as the Empire's protector. The Arch of Constantine in the city shows
the Emperor seated on a throne with a halo – which at the time was the
symbol not of sanctity, but of imperial authority. The figures around
him raise their arms in supplication, just like the disciples in the
Church mosaic. As Ambrose put it, Christ was now at the head of the
legions. ...

There may well have been a whiff of popular discontent in people's
reluctance to attend Catholic churches, possibly connected with the
incorporation of Jesus into the imperial power structure. The Catholic
Church emphasized not his human incarnation but his transcendent
magisterial authority, his right to judge the living and the dead and
to determine their fate for all eternity. Basically, the terrible
power of Roman authority was presented as being derived from the even
more terrible power of Jesus, a looming supreme God painted on the
apse ceiling over the altar where his blood was to be drunk and his
body eaten.

