# Crashed by Tooze

Over the summer of 2015 the Fed prevaricated, but at the September
FOMC meeting the question could no longer be dodged. The majority of
analysts expected the Fed to move rates up a notch. But then came the
shock devaluation of the yuan and the second slide in the Shanghai
Stock Exchange.  Whatever the limitations on the Fed’s mandates,
markets were global. They could not ignore the threat from China. On
August 24 America’s Dow Jones lost 1,000 points and the Fed pulled
back. The normalization of US monetary policy was put on hold and
Janet Yellen made no secret of the board’s reasoning. Instability in
China was the key. In the press conference on September 18, 2015, as
she explained the FOMC’s decision, journalists counted Yellen making
six references to China and ten to “global” factors. Unlike in 2013,
when it had been India and Turkey under pressure, the risk of
spillback from China to the United States was too important to be
ignored. Indeed, the effect of Chinese deflation on the world economy
was so powerful that there was no need for the Fed to pile on with its
own interest rate increase. ...

Germany’s savings appear as the counterpart to Spain’s trade
deficit. ​But accounting identity is not the same as causal
relationship. It wasn’t Germany’s excess savings, or its exports, that
produced the boom in Spain. It was the lopsided credit-fueled boom
that produced the demand imbalances, the trade flows and the savings
imbalances. Europe’s banking system provided elastic
intermediation. Had Germany’s domestic economy been in more robust
shape, Germany’s demand for imports would have been larger, and the
trade imbalances within the eurozone might have been smaller. A
somewhat larger fraction of the Spanish economy might have been
directed toward producing goods for export to Germany rather than
supplying the domestic boom. But there is no reason to think that a
smaller flow of net savings from a more rapidly growing Germany would
have done much to slow the credit-fueled upswing in Ireland or
Spain. In modern finance, credit is not a fixed sum constrained by the
“fundamentals” of the “real economy.” It is an elastic quantity, which
in an asset price boom can easily become self-expanding on a
transnational scale. ...

52 percent of the mortgage-backed securities sold to the Fed under QE
were sold by foreign banks, with Europeans far in the lead. ...

During the height of the crisis in 2008–2009, the West was, frankly,
neglectful of Eastern Europe, despite the fact that talk of NATO
expansion had led to a war with Russia in Georgia only weeks before
the outbreak of the crisis in August 2008. In 2009, significantly, it
was veterans of the George H. W. Bush administration who were warning
that Eastern and Western Europe were once more at risk of
dividing. Then, in 2013, the EU sleepwalked into confrontation with
Putin ​over Ukraine. And all of this at a moment when the Obama
administration was pushing TPP, seen in Beijing as aggressive
containment, and Japan and China were confronting each other over
rocky islands in the East China Sea.

No doubt the Trump administration is unpredictable, but it was on
Obama’s watch, with Hillary Clinton as secretary of state, that
relations with Russia and China escalated to this degree. ...

Against the backdrop of the TARP debacle and the shambles in Europe,
Gordon Brown’s scheme looked like a breakthrough. From New York, Paul
Krugman lavished praise on Britain’s Labour government. Britain’s
Social Democrats had figured out how to rescue financial
capitalism. It certainly helped that the Labour government was less
averse to nationalization than Hank Paulson was. Less charitably it
might be said that since the 1990s, New Labour, like the Democrats in
the United States, had entered into an enthusiastic partnership with
the City of London. It was, therefore, ​no coincidence that it was now
Labour in Britain and the Democrats in the United States who were
showing such energy in the struggle to fix the banking crisis. It was
a monster they had helped to create ...

With the Republicans deeply divided, on September 24 McCain suspended
his campaign and announced he was returning to Washington to take the
lead in “fixing” the crisis. In the Treasury and the White House this
caused panic. The markets were in a febrile mood. No one knew what
McCain had in mind. What was certain was that it would stir up the
Republican base. Startled at the news, Paulson screamed into his
Motorola, demanding that the White House get a grip on “their”
candidate. Bernanke was so alarmed by the intensity of the political
power play that he thought it better to withdraw to the safety of the
Fed. In the end it took interventions by the White House chief of
staff and major Republican donors, including Henry Kravis, the private
equity billionaire, J.P. Morgan vice chair James Lee and John Thain of
Merrill Lynch, to hold McCain in line. But this left McCain
tongue-tied, torn between the demands of “the system” and the populist
groundswell that Palin was rallying to his cause. In the climactic
meeting of the two candidates with the Bush administration on
September 25, a meeting called at McCain’s request, the Republican
candidate literally had nothing to say. ...

[T]he United States was set back on track. The leadership of American
finance renewed itself. Even when viewed narrowly in accounting terms,
many of the Treasury and Fed support programs made a profit for the
American taxpayer. The benefits of preventing a second Great
Depression were vast. [..] But its economic merits are not so obvious
as its proponents presume.  And it offered no comfort to the advocates
of laissez-faire.

Gone were the days when economic policy was about shrinking the state
to set free the spontaneous order of market liberty. No longer did
wisdom lie in devising predictable rules to curtail the arbitrary
discretion of policy makers. [..T]here was a political price to pay.
The crisis fighting of 2008–2009 scrambled American politics. The Bush
administration lost the backing of much of the congressional
Republican Party. The crisis snapped the fragile bond between the
GOP’s managerial, big-business elite and its right- wing mass base. As
the popular wing of the party, backed by maverick oligarch donors,
moved increasingly toward indignant anti-establishment opposition,
mainline conservatives like Bernanke and Paulson were left to complain
that it was not they who left the party, but the party that left
them. The Bush administration’s crisis-fighting effort was carried by
the Democratic Party’s majorities in Congress. [..T]he fracture of the
American Right would in due course have profound consequences both for
America and for the wider world.






