# Tweets - Week 47


Reminder: The largest software project ever created by mankind, Linux,
was not built using object-oriented programming. This ain't the
90s. If it was, OO would be Zima.

OO is helpful in some cases, but also grossly misused. I wish it
didn't exist so ppl would not try to overengineer unreadable,
unmaintable code.

---

Sounds like Americans can be prowar under the right
conditions. Clinton wanted to look strong, and could sell that to
voters.

Long-term result? Not so good. Thanks to Clintonism, slave
markets are back in Libya.

"In the middle of the 1992 New Hampshire primary campaign, when
candidates were working twenty-hour days and not a minute was
unscheduled, Clinton took a break to fly back to Arkansas in order to
preside over the lethal injection of a convicted murderer named Ricky
Ray Rector.  Rector was so profoundly brain damaged from a
self-inflicted gunshot wound that it’s not clear he knew he was about
to die.  After finishing his final meal, Rector asked the guards if he
could save his dessert for later.  Rival campaigns denounced the
execution as inhumane.  Clinton ignored them, and in November he won
the general election.

The lesson was clear, and Clinton as president soon applied it to
foreign policy.  When he took office, Clinton inherited a
several-thousand-troop humanitarian mission in Somalia, first deployed
by President Bush.  Clinton didn’t simply continue the mission, he
expanded it, deploying hundreds of U.S. Special Forces to battle
Somali warlords. Clinton withdrew American forces only after nineteen
U.S.  troops were killed.  Criticism came not from liberals in his own
party, but from Republicans.

The experience was painful, but it did not halt future foreign
interventions. In 1994, Clinton dispatched Marines to Haiti in order
to topple the regime there.  The following year, Clinton sent airpower
to intervene in the Bosnian War.  He later deployed more than sixteen
thousand troops to the region.  In 1999, the United States bombed
Yugoslavia as part of the Kosovo War, and again, thousands of troops
arrived as peacekeepers in the aftermath. Clinton sent cruise missiles
into both Sudan and Afghanistan as well.

Clinton’s most militant posture was reserved for Iraq, which the
U.S. military bombed numerous times throughout his presidency.  By the
end of Clinton’s second term, the United States was bombing Iraq an
average of three times a week, at the cost of more than $1 billion a
year" -- Carlson, *Ship of Fools* 

---

It is popular because Bernie *made* it popular. 

Plus MM's own documentary *Sicko* helped in this regard. So he showed leadership. 

"Michael Moore: M4A is popular"

---

Bruce Willis' mom is Kraut, like off the boat speaka full-blown
Kraut.. BW's childhood was shortly after the end of WWII, mom is
German, so they were apparently harrassed little bit, called names,
the "N-word" dropped on.. A somber BW comments in an interview now "it
was racism, really...". He said this in a such soft understated tone
of his, it was hilarious..

---

"Good artists copy, great artists steal" -- Picasso 

---

And he feels right at home in the Democratic Party. 

While activists are thrown out of courtrooms where he is present.

Keep the status quo - it's great.

"George E. Norcross .. is an American businessman and a Democratic
Party leader in New Jersey. Norcross is executive chairman of Conner
Strong & Buckelew, an insurance brokerage firm"

---

"If there’s a poster child for everything Altman says is wrong with
New Jersey politics, it’s Norcross. The executive chairman of
insurance brokerage Conner Strong & Buckelew is regarded as one of the
most powerful people in New Jersey. In recent months, he’s faced
allegations, reported by WNYC and ProPublica, that he manipulated New
Jersey’s controversial tax-incentive program to benefit his companies
and affiliated organizations in Camden to the tune of $1.1 billion"

[Link](https://www.inquirer.com/news/sue-altman-george-norcross-new-jersey-20191119.html)

---

Right - they could even extract space tech from him if he has been
captured badly enough. If US wants to keep its lead in space, I'd
watch out who is in the list of favored companies. He could take from
NASA, then the Chinese take from him.

"@georgia_orwell_

Elon Musk’s connection (capture?) by China has concerning implications
for national security. Furthermore, any CEO of a US company should be
questioning the ethics of expanding business with China, as we learn
more about what is going on in the Xinjiang region and HK"

---

"A recent study by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service
shows that nearly 80 percent of the maximum $7,500 federal tax credit
for electric vehicles now goes to families earning more than $100,000"

[Link](https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/471095-electric-avenue-the-democrats-crusade-to-rob-from-the-poor-to)

---

Face of the moon is full of holes, bcz of small meteors. What if one
hit you while u r on the Moon? No atmo no protection. U'd get it right
on the head bro..! :|

---

Besides stuff that works and known it works that is passed down, I
care nothing abt the past. All the historical buildings could
collapse, I would not bat an eye.

I dont think ppl want to live with so much of this shoddy, crypty
"history" either. Why would Egyptians build an entire new Cairo
outside the 'old' Cairo now?  Dont they loove their history? No. Noone
gives a shit. Some f--ing billionaire (of his time) built some shoddy
structure (yes the pyramids, they do suck) with slave labor, why
should anyone be forced to live with this thing, forever?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">“If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses.” -Henry Ford</p>&mdash; Keith McCullough (@KeithMcCullough) <a href="https://twitter.com/KeithMcCullough/status/1196455069195100160?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 18, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

In TR case nation-state was inevitable, the collapse of the "Otto" was
a natural result of its decay. Now it's time to tune; fixing the
narrative, admitting to past mistakes, and handle problems within
borders (they *all* come from within the borders).

---

The narrative defines how the state sees its citizens and how it will
act towards them. So broad stupidity at this level needs urgent care,
sadly a chronic condition in Russia, Tiggerland and similar places.

---

Culture is not narrative. The latter can be changed, and quite
fast. 

---

What do you do when national narrative is moronic? You have to fix
it. Otherwise, anyone who is generating serious thought on national
level will dismiss it. And you don't want these people's dismissal bcz
it creates a distance between thought leaders and the state. Plus it
disturbs the newcomers into the fold from the periphery, they'll feel
like a dumbass when they arrive and find out central narrative is not
taken seriously.

(The transmission of the NN is kind of like the telephone game - but
in reverse. As the message gets to the edges it gets stronger, not
weaker. The poor sod at the end of the line believes the shit, and
believes hard. Exactly as it's written in the beginning of the
line. In the center, ppl are much more fluid with NN, especially if it
is moronic)

So be truthful. That is the best strategy.

---

There are methods that can update the Hessian during min opt procedure
instead of recalculating it from a new quad approx at each new
point. Nice. Even starting from ident matrix they work.

---

Mysterious income.. as in mystery meat. What a sausage factory.

[Link](https://ftalphaville.ft.com/2019/11/15/1573818417000/Tesla-s-mysterious-income)

---

19Q3 S&P 500 earnings are expected to decline 0.4%. 461 companies reported.

Trump approval 41.2% disproval 54.4% net = -13.2%. It returned to its
boring previous (low) state.

[Link](https://lipperalpha.refinitiv.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/TRPR_82221_515.pdf)

---

"Sydney blanketed in hazardous smoke from bushfires"

[Link](https://youtu.be/2F-BpU6tT_E)

---

@ByDonkeys

EXPOSED: Guess who used taxpayer funds to host the lavish launch of a
think tank campaigning to let American corporations run NHS hospitals?
Yes, Boris Johnson.

[Link](https://twitter.com/ByDonkeys/status/1196685691964534785)

---

"@ShayKhatiri

During its first 24 hours, it's already been the most violent protests
in decades, if not ever. 1979 revolution did not reach this level of
violence...

Protestors are torching the flag of the Islamic Republic, taking down
and torching statues and pictures of Khomeini and Khamenei, and
torching gas stations and banks (all banks are either public or
privately owned by regime leaders)"

---

Woha.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Jesus! An armoured vehicle of the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HongKong?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HongKong</a> police tries to break into the Poly University gets literally bombarded with molotov cocktails <a href="https://t.co/NDybGIXNIs">pic.twitter.com/NDybGIXNIs</a></p>&mdash; Thomas van Linge (@ThomasVLinge) <a href="https://twitter.com/ThomasVLinge/status/1196069105633243139?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 17, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

They're never getting out of those settlements short of a war. Give
Gaza to Egypt, everywhere else one-state solution. Pals become 1st
class citizens.

"U.S. softens position on Israeli settlements"

---

Big news on the recent (re)discovery of eigenvector calculation from
eigenvalues.. This
[dude](https://twitter.com/AlanEdelman1/status/1195819794609659906)
wrote the code in a fringe language. Here is one in Py.

```python
import numpy.linalg as lin

def evec_from_eval(A, i, j):
    lam, v = lin.eig(A)
    n = A.shape[0]
    s = list(range(n))
    s.remove(j)
    o = A[s,:]
    lam2, _ = lin.eig(o[:,s])
    left = np.prod([lam[i] - lam[k] for k in range(n) if k!=i])
    right = np.prod([lam[i] - lam2[k] for k in range(n-1)])
    newval = right/left
    return newval

A = np.random.rand(10,10)
VV = A * (A.T)

eval,evecs = lin.eig(VV)
i,j=2,4
print (evec_from_eval(VV, i, j))
print (evecs[j,i]**2)
```

```text
0.05858822705334258
0.05858822705334358
```

---

FDR did deliver, helped a lot of people, and they voted for him until he died.

---

They will be whereever the f#$k you lead them to be at.

That means leadership needs to make a decision to present a
sustainable palette of political choices.  A strong left position that
alternates with right, back and forth. Until then ppl will feel pain,
project that pain in various ways and they'll keep switching every 4/8
yrs, with a Rep slant ideologically (it's their game), so everyone
will lose in the long run.

"Where are the people at (politically?)"

---

Yes. The only green solution that can solve steel. 

"It’s the most nettlesome problem in the quest to ditch fossil fuels:
how can you get thousand-degree heat used in factory furnaces without
pumping billions of tons of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere?

Heat-intensive processes like steelmaking and oil refineries are the
starting point for production of everything from cars to life-saving
medicines. But fueling their ultra-high temperatures requires burning
coal, oil and natural gas. That makes industry responsible for about
20% of the carbon dioxide produced by humans and heating processes,
and a bigger emitter than all cars and aircraft combined.

Under mounting pressure from protesters and climate-conscious
investors, major industrial companies and governments are scrambling
for a solution. They’re finding the most likely alternative may be
hydrogen"

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/amp/news/articles/2019-11-17/hydrogen-fueled-rockets-and-zeppelins-and-can-drive-industry-too)

---

Reminder: In the *Time for Change* model, the econ parameter that
defines the success of the incumbent is GDP growth, not asset price
growth.

People mostly do not participate in the market, directly or even
indirectly. Two-thirds of Americans do not even participate in or have
access to a 401(k) plan.

---

And the SP500 shot up about the same time when the FED balance sheet
started expanding again 🤔

---

Not QE

<img src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EJ4hgz4WkAAOmLB?format=jpg&name=medium" width="500"/>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">For those who say stocks follow earnings, in 2019 US EPS are down for the year and the S&amp;P is up 24%</p>&mdash; zerohedge (@zerohedge) <a href="https://twitter.com/zerohedge/status/1196401743443177472?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 18, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

They released the laughing gas again \#markets \#fed

---

@NASA

Confirmed: there's water vapor present above the icy surface of
Jupiter's moon Europa.

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/NASA/status/1196488493154947072)

---

If complete renewable fuel transition is done I'd want a
self-sustaining caravan (PV-to-gas).

---

"W7energy, a startup company with roots at the University of Delaware,
just got a proverbial shot in its research arm.

The company was recently awarded $3.4 million in new funding from the
U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy
(ARPA-E) to advance and commercialize a new class of polymer membranes
that will make fuels cells much more economical"

[Link](https://www.che.udel.edu/news/2019/11/15/advancing-fuel-cell-research/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Must say, looking at fuel cell hydrogen shares at the moment is a bit like looking at fireworks. Not all at the same time but pretty amazing. 💥</p>&mdash; William Blomstrand (@william_sw) <a href="https://twitter.com/william_sw/status/1196448999454248960?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 18, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

WeWork - what went wrong?

The IWG comparison is a killer - it must have provided a clear
yardstick for others to judge a company on. Plus all that weird spending.

[Link](https://youtu.be/X2LwIiKhczo?t=392)

---

Oat based milk 👍

[Link](https://youtu.be/3FcNucHbMck)

---

I see too much dependence on Cython in some Py packages.. I hope in
the future packages remove this dep, and replace it with LLVM based
tech somehow.

---

"Wild Type ..  raised $12.5 million to develop 'lab-grown' salmon, that
is fish produced by in vitro cultivation of animal cells, without the
need of wild fisheries or setting up hatcheries and farms.

In June, the company hosted a test dinner in Portland, Oregon where
they served samples of their product prepared according to a variety
of culinary traditions, including a bowl of bisque (a French soup) and
a platter of Latin American ceviche (raw fish cured in lemon and
spiced with peppers). Wild Type estimated that a single spicy salmon
roll served that night cost a whopping $ 200 to produce but they hope
to bring the price down to just $7 to $8 per pound in a few years"

[Link](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidebanis/2019/11/12/how-salmon-became-the-symbol-of-our-broken-food-system/#12b2ff7437a9)

---

Film called *Artifishal*, about rivers, and the fight for the future
of wild fish. 

---

Full-blown Python science stack on pers phone. Cheapest Samsung, runs
everything.

<img width="300" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EJpTGqBX0AEIgNp?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">“The development of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> fired boilers will mean millions of existing <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/heating?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#heating</a> systems in our homes can be saved, rather than the entire system needing to be replaced.” - M. Bridges, Technical Comm &amp; Product Management Director at <a href="https://twitter.com/HeatingYourHome?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@HeatingYourHome</a>.<a href="https://t.co/ab8a01tJq2">https://t.co/ab8a01tJq2</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Europe (@H2Europe) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1196342525172355072?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 18, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

It's all all about text, language; we create visual through language,
which is non-visual. Coding, as in "code" is something shorter, "code
for something else".

In unis, the culture is all about open source, and Unix. When I
started consulting, same culture. Microsoft tools, projects were seen
as bastard children, especially for server-side stuff.

But I was curious, so I joined a MS Solution Provider to see how they
work. Picked one that had received an award as top MSSP actually. At
the time they were using something called MTS, programmers drop a
'component' in a visual tool, becomes a green ball, and when the
component is called, the green ball would just start rotating. I was
like you mo..f..kas have no idea how this shit works do you?

---

Dude had his travel path encoded in HTML / JS that displayed an JS
based "map viewer" thingy, slow as shit, unusable, I did view-source
on his HTML, took the geo coords as text, wrote them in a GPX file
(human readable, text) submitted it to Wikiloc. Now anyone can
download, view, store locally etc.

Files, folders, command-line - that's what it's all about. The Unix
Way. 

---

True on the balance of manufacturing and services. There is a
hard-limit to how much of an economy can be manuf. Most countries
already produce more shit than its citizens can buy. For US case
"bring back manufacturing" is fine (to keep know-how in-house, for US
tho that know-how already existed, plus labor will not increase as a
result), but US will not be a "manufacturing economy" at the
end. Services will dominate. 

[Link](https://youtu.be/Qc3ZFuUHXsU?t=766)

---

We do not need vast lands for crops anymore. With vertical farming 1
can make better use of space. Plus we already make better use of
existing space (20-fold increase). Then the space-agro-mafia equation
no longer exists. 

---

AI Aliens. Yes!

👽👽👽👽🤖🤖🤖🤖🤖

(Was the title of a YT video in my feed)

---

Use the coal to produce renewable fuel. Ship it.

"Coal extraction in Germany. This thread is crazy !"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/olesovhcom/status/1196185528904884224)

---

Smooth over the data, singular days can be noisy. What does the
trend say? I [looked](../../2018/01/january-temperatures.md)
at NYC January temparatures, the trend is up.

"Denier: But how come it is still cold? It is getting colder. Coldest day ever today"

---

Cool. Good luck.

"@colinobrady is taking on the world’s most dangerous waters – the
Drake Passage.🌊"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/Discovery/status/1195559619608895488)

---

"@courtlandistan

@mtaibbi .. 'Epstein was died.' Is the funniest shit I’ve
heard all year"

---

Brunkebergstorg 11 103 37 Stockholm Sweden

59.331783, 18.065663

I am even giving you the address.

Drop. THE BOMB.

---

"@nntaleb

Lebanon must default. We most certainly have to do so soon. Pull the trigger.

The Eurobonds are pricing a near certaity of an eventual default. So save money and do it now.

Use the money instead to pay for necessities & pharmaceuticals.

@GregorySMcMurry

Argentina has defaulted 8 times, but 2 years ago they were still able to sell a 100 year bond for $3 billion"

---

BTW there is some compsci-fu in the writing up the core tools of the
said shufflings. But that doesn't extend to the users of these
tools. Even for deep learning - there is good math in its core design
and implementation, but Le Cun had all the fun (as well as a few
others). The rest are shit shufflers, monkeying around data, being
training data's bitch.

---

Seriously. It doesn't get more IT than that. Shit shuffling for $200 mil?

"1Password takes a $200M Series A"

[Link](https://techcrunch.com/2019/11/14/fourteen-years-after-launching-1password-takes-first-funding-a-200m-series-a/)

---

I wonder why

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Warren Buffett has $128 billion in cash and analysts can&#39;t figure out why he isn&#39;t spending it. <a href="https://t.co/ZaJ9piL20p">https://t.co/ZaJ9piL20p</a> <a href="https://t.co/FoUAgWTa52">pic.twitter.com/FoUAgWTa52</a></p>&mdash; CNBC (@CNBC) <a href="https://twitter.com/CNBC/status/1196031758145339393?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 17, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

It's funny - but her songs still give me gas

"@dbenderstern

I can’t believe I watched Céline Dion do karaoke of her own song at a
gay bar at 12:30 AM last night"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/dbenderstern/status/1195370831171522560)

---

BTW Bloomb shares are by no means an endorsement of Bloomberg. His
news outlet still sounds half-sane actually.

---

"@BloombergAsia

Hydrogen is emerging as the most practical way to generate the 1000
degree temperatures heavy industry needs. It works in rockets too"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Norway pays £134 per person each year to have a worse trade deal than the UK without having any input in the EU. <br><br>The UK pays £29/person every year for the best deal &amp; the highest rebate in the EU. <br>No Schengen. No euro. Full input. <br><br>Just call it Germany++. <br><br>We must be insane.</p>&mdash; Adam S. Business Owner,Anti-Brexit Campaigner#FBPE (@Adam_SH69) <a href="https://twitter.com/Adam_SH69/status/1195759923885465601?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Buttigieg also enjoyed an affluent upbringing - a trait that was
perceived highly negatively by those surveyed, and a trait that none
of the three top contenders share. His campaign has been backed by
more ultra-wealthy contributors than any other contender's, with
nearly two dozen billionaire donors, according to a report from
Forbes"

[Link](https://www.businessinsider.com/warren-biden-sanders-supporters-really-dont-like-pete-buttigieg-2019-10)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">TU/e &amp; global researchers design high surface area nickel metal cages to get 20x more activity for hydrogen production <a href="https://t.co/PO5lDCIexU">https://t.co/PO5lDCIexU</a> Producing electrons from PV is great and insufficient. H2 is critical for deep decarbonization; On short list of needed solutions.</p>&mdash; Garry Golden (@garrygolden) <a href="https://twitter.com/garrygolden/status/1195791335124557824?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The unapologetic vision set by <a href="https://twitter.com/BernieSanders?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@BernieSanders</a> was achieved in Canada by <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/TommyDouglas?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#TommyDouglas</a> in 1966! We are closer than ever to taking care of everyone because of this leadership. Thank you, Bernie!!! 2/3</p>&mdash; Sara Nelson (@FlyingWithSara) <a href="https://twitter.com/FlyingWithSara/status/1195742566169231361?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

TV show *Star Trek Enterprise* (not TNG, not DS9, not Voyager, the other
one, with Bakula) aired on Sep 2001, two weeks after 9/11. The event
probably cut the legs from under the show little bit. And I bet
C. Trinnier was cast to be a stand-in for W (casting decision made
before 911, after Rep win), this is TV land trying to be inclusive. He
even looks like him. CT saz the writers tried to turn him into a
hayhead but he resisted. Anyway just watched STE last show, and
Trinnier's character dies at the end. So they killed Dubya. By season
5 it would be 2006, and the Iraq War would be grating on everyone.

---

What to do with all that space junk floating in the orbit? Idea:
mini-bots to find and gently push them towards the Earth.

Reentry is a bitch.

---

FDP is a pro-biz party, small sometimes a kingmaker. Btw them, Greens,
and CDU H2 has real momentum.

”\#FDP want to go green [H2] 'oil of the 21st century'. Today in the
\#Bundestag"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/william_sw/status/1195753461985529856)

---

The cheap TR Android phone I bought to go around SIM restrictions went
bust. Crappiest phone I've ever had. So much 4 buying local. Back to
Samsung.

---

✊ \#Kap

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I photographed this mural (located in ATL) earlier this year. Today <a href="https://twitter.com/Kaepernick7?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Kaepernick7</a> is in town for a NFL workout. However this plays out, may he be granted the mental and physical strength to endure it all. I wish him nothing but eternal positivity and blessings. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/StillWithKap?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#StillWithKap</a> <a href="https://t.co/CU8MAp2rKM">pic.twitter.com/CU8MAp2rKM</a></p>&mdash; Cortney Johnson (@CortneyJohnelle) <a href="https://twitter.com/CortneyJohnelle/status/1195705201275088905?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

[A certain plant] has seeds which use paper-thin wings to disperse
like giant gliders. The seeds, which are produced by a football-sized
pod, can glide hundreds of metres across the forest

[Link](https://twitter.com/Rainmaker1973/status/1195708890014466055)

---

J. Favreau was involved.. Of course. Excellent director! 

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Ulstein, a family-owned ship manufacturer, has unveiled its first hydrogen-powered ship design which is now market-ready, offering zero emission marine operations. <a href="https://t.co/luA0GjoUXT">https://t.co/luA0GjoUXT</a></p>&mdash; 24hydrogen.com (@24hydrogen_com) <a href="https://twitter.com/24hydrogen_com/status/1195601176613523456?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

It takes a decentralized-minded central power interventionism to make
decentral economy and innovation work.

---

Stoller, *Goliath*

"In the 1940s, the FCC and the Department of Justice’s Antitrust
Division split up RCA, which owned two national broadcasters, the
National Broadcasting Company (NBC) and the Blue Network. The Blue
Network was spun off, and renamed the American Broadcasting Company
(ABC). The FCC and DOJ also blocked these national broadcasters from
controlling local radio affiliates. The Antitrust Division also broke
up the Hollywood boss system, whereby five large studios and three
small ones controlled distribution ​of movies through ownership or
coercive deals with theaters. Taking apart this system allowed
independent filmmakers and artists to create and sell their work, and
broke the ability of movie moguls to control the careers of
actors. New Dealers sought to ensure that communications technology,
whether in film, TV, radio, or over the phone, would not be controlled
by a monopolistic or coercive business model"

---

Privatized water? Seriously. 

I bet the country has great malls though.

"Chile still uses the same Constitution of the Pinochet era"

[Link](https://youtu.be/c3o55qXPWTg?t=40)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">📌🇺🇸 The US is getting ready for its first <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a>-powered train! The first-of-its-kind passenger train is planned to be introduced in 2024. 🚃 <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2News?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2News</a> <a href="https://t.co/TGAy6XJTyP">https://t.co/TGAy6XJTyP</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Council (@HydrogenCouncil) <a href="https://twitter.com/HydrogenCouncil/status/1195261716071899136?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 15, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Green-Tech for the US: <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Stadler?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Stadler</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/goSBCTA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@goSBCTA</a> sign first ever <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/contract?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#contract</a> for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a>-powered <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/train?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#train</a> - <a href="https://t.co/JYMXG9YWy9">https://t.co/JYMXG9YWy9</a> <a href="https://t.co/CUrJPAEVuB">pic.twitter.com/CUrJPAEVuB</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1195368316954664960?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 15, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Stadler builds a hydrogen train for the first time

The Swiss railway manufacturer receives the order for the development
of a hydrogen-powered train. The order comes from California.  The new
train will provide space for 108 passengers.

The so-called "Flirt H2" is to be used in San Bernardino County in
southern California from 2024 in passenger service, as Stadler
announced on Thursday. In addition, the option exists for the delivery
of four other identical trains. An order volume was not mentioned"

[Link](https://m.tagesanzeiger.ch/articles/25358733)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">this is actually true - despite the media insistence to the contrary, all the most brilliant economic thinkers in the UK today are advising Labour; the Tories have fallen back increasingly on a bunch of ideologues and clowns <a href="https://t.co/lrnAqOTlw1">https://t.co/lrnAqOTlw1</a></p>&mdash; David Graeber (@davidgraeber) <a href="https://twitter.com/davidgraeber/status/1195290153616596992?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 15, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Reboot Han Solo, in TV, with the actor Joe Flanigan. He'd be perfect
for the role. Funny story: in a previous work JF and Jason Momoa were
buddies, JM played the gruff warrior type, and Flanigan used to call
Momoa's character "Chewie".

---

[DNC](https://youtu.be/cE60t1BQmW0?t=54)

\#tbtv

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="ca" dir="ltr">Carbon dioxide concentrations of ~300 ppm <a href="https://t.co/TBuWJIDauf">https://t.co/TBuWJIDauf</a></p>&mdash; Simon Donner (@simondonner) <a href="https://twitter.com/simondonner/status/1195162845354188802?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 15, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

@LangenNorma

Oh, the irony. Italian council is flooded immediately after rejecting
measures on climate change - CNN

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/LangenNorma/status/1195057978749018112)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Imaginative, bold, modern, common sense. Broadband is a 21st century basic good, it’s crap and expensive thanks to a privatised industry, it needs to change. This is how it can be done. <a href="https://t.co/xvLHiCUN2M">https://t.co/xvLHiCUN2M</a></p>&mdash; Ed Miliband (@Ed_Miliband) <a href="https://twitter.com/Ed_Miliband/status/1195108454677045248?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 14, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Maduro is still a punk.

---

So the coup is more like what happened to Morsi (undemocratic leader),
faced with massive protests the bureucracy got scared, and removed
him. They should've returned to democracy afterwards, unfortunately
chose not to.

---

It is also looking like Morales might have wanted to hold on to power
a little too long, somewhat undemocratically. 

Sure it's hard especially given so many previous US interventions in
the area. Respect the process.

Lula is a good example. He governed, carried legitimacy, was wronged,
but now more popular than ever.

---

While Bolivia having half the world's lithium (used in bitch
batteries) might not have directly created this mess, it surely
contributed to some unrest. We need renewable fuels that are not based
on rare earth materials.

---

Morales did some good, sad to see him go this way.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Labour will make broadband fast and free for everybody, in every home, in every corner of our country.<br><br>This is real change.<a href="https://t.co/2RO8aI3CkJ">https://t.co/2RO8aI3CkJ</a></p>&mdash; Jeremy Corbyn (@jeremycorbyn) <a href="https://twitter.com/jeremycorbyn/status/1195105551513993217?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 14, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

YoY earnings are flat. 90% of SP500 published, 10% more to go.

[Link](https://lipperalpha.refinitiv.com/2019/11/chart-of-the-day-sp-500-y-y-growth-rates/)

---

Mechanical pencil that has a tip like wood pencil. 0.x mechs break too
e-z. This thing is like a rock

<img width="400" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EJVFx0cW4AA_u6w?format=png&name=small"/>


---

Little quadratic interp m--f--ka.. Yiieaah.. 

<img width="450" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EJUus54XYAAYnqq?format=png&name=small"/>

---

Sehr gut

"Institut fur Statistik Sonderforschungsbereich"

---

The Q&A site changed its point reward mechanism they favor
high-effect questions now. Was wondering where all these pts came
from.

---

Ahem - on a certain big Q&A site one of my math questions is creeping
up to Number #1, currently at #2.

---

I get a cheap phone and Termux works on it like a snap. Unix command
line on smartphone - kick ass.

---

Niki Haley as a new possible VP pick? Dumping Pence? That would be a
scene to watch.

---

Billionaires \#sethMeyers

[Link](https://youtu.be/nF68GqEVnRc?t=92)

---

UK Labor can use the chlorine chicken (from US) thing in ads - it's
very powerful. Also true. BJ knew it was catchy that's why he tried to
coopt it, but also in a way ensuring the phrase was "used up" and
can't be returned to again.  So unearth the phrase, and shove it up
his ass. B4 election ends, every1 should know US will sell UK
chlorinated chicken.

---

Schiff looks so weird. He has these eyes that makes it look like there
is some depth there, thoughfulness or something, but there
nothin. Knock knock.. Nobody's home.

---

