# Tweets - Week 34

&#127866;&#127866;&#127866;&#127866;&#127866;&#127866;

"Merkel Announces Hydrogen Strategy for Aviation: 'This should be
worked out by the end of the year', said Merkel on Wednesday at the
event at Leipzig airport. 'Flying is the most climate-damaging way of
getting around'"

---

Bernie is up in two states now. Colorado and NH.

---

"@BDSmovement

There’s a been an earthquake in US politics as a result of Israel’s
banning of the two U.S. Congresswomen, with many Americans coming
around to embracing one of the BDS goals, sanctions"

---

What will happen with USD? Exciting...

---

Mitch is not foolin around...

"I wrote the Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, which extended special
privileges to the region because of its unique status. This special
access to the U.S. and other nations helped drive the investment and
modernization that have enriched Hong Kong, and Beijing by
extension. Beijing must know the Senate will reconsider that special
relationship, among other steps, if Hong Kong’s autonomy is eroded"

[Link](https://www.wsj.com/articles/we-stand-with-hong-kong-11566341474?redirect=amp#click=https://t.co/LXG1iMGxBm)


---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Breaking: Putin Dumps US Dollar<br><br>“Russia&#39;s Rosneft, one of the world&#39;s top oil producers and exporters, has notified customers that future tender contracts for oil products will be denominated in euros not dollars”<br><br>Death of Petrodollar <a href="https://t.co/tRLI0OqtZz">https://t.co/tRLI0OqtZz</a></p>&mdash; Economics Geopolitics Tech (@EconGeopolTech) <a href="https://twitter.com/EconGeopolTech/status/1164166583142326273?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 21, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

US has no trouble pulling inv as it holds worlds reserve curr \#irate

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">An FT comment: <br><br>&quot;Christmas 1929 was great...<br><br>The champagne was flowing and unemployment was 4%&quot;</p>&mdash; Renegade Inc. (@Renegade_Inc) <a href="https://twitter.com/Renegade_Inc/status/1163856894215229440?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 20, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Fin show idea; Fifty Shades of Ponzi. Finance ppl sit around and talk
abt Ponzi schemes, pump n dump, and Tesla.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When people ask &quot;what&#39;s going on in the economy?&quot; and a pundit waffles on about technical minutiae...this is what to remember: Too much debt, too much credit, too much leverage so subsequently not enough liquidity. QE bought time to fix structural issues but chose not to. Simple.</p>&mdash; Renegade Inc. (@Renegade_Inc) <a href="https://twitter.com/Renegade_Inc/status/1163854358817255424?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 20, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Is near zero rates fueling growth, or just causes investors to lose their shit looking for yield in safer investments like bonds causing their yield to go down? I guess gov debt becomes more manageable that way, so WTH. Screw the savers.

---

"Up until now small variations in the current passing through a memristor device was not precise enough for numerical calculations. The Nanoelectronics group, University of Michigan, got around this problem by digitizing the current outputs—defining current ranges as specific bit values (i.e., 0 or 1). The team was also able to map large mathematical problems into smaller blocks within the array, improving the efficiency and flexibility of the system.

Computers with these new blocks, which the researchers call
“memory-processing units,” [..]. They are also well suited to tasks
that are based on matrix operations"

[Link](https://www.nextbigfuture.com/2018/08/memristor-based-equation-solver-could-cut-energy-used-by-100-times-for-longer-lasting-smartphones.html?amp)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Solving partial differential equations using a memristor-based hardware and software system <a href="https://t.co/5dU5wdXWaR">https://t.co/5dU5wdXWaR</a> <a href="https://t.co/6REGRdBQVN">pic.twitter.com/6REGRdBQVN</a></p>&mdash; Nature Electronics (@NatureElectron) <a href="https://twitter.com/NatureElectron/status/1026428413354106880?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 6, 2018</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

There is a TR town called Batman (no meaning in local lang). There is
another called Lice.

Owl is called "Mister Bird", *baykuş*. Owls crack me up anyway, the
name is even better.

---

Biden looks 20 years older than Bernie. The batteries ran out on this
guy - finito. No joke. \#DNR

---

You bury the left, you end up with worse. 

"But the bottom line is this: Miliband came not to bury capitalism,
but to save it. He offered Britain a smidgen of basic social
democracy, the smallest taste of redistribution: curbing zero-hours
contracts and the vast power imbalance between bosses and workers; the
privatisation of natural monopolies and the rotting away of the public
realm. By dismissing that argument, the establishment in effect sent
out one unified message to voters mired in a slump: that post-crash
Britain was unreformed and unreformable. That argument was to be used
against the elites with deadly effect in the EU referendum of 2016."

---

There is this framing of the left that they cannot manage things; but
somehow cons f#$k shit up much badly and irreversibly than anyone in
the mainstream left.

"So much has changed this decade that it seems absurd to consider how
at its start, in 2010, a 40-year-old father of two and whiz on a
Rubik’s Cube was considered the biggest threat to the British
establishment. Did that really happen? Yes, confirm the archives. He
was Red Ed, a “Marxoid creep” (the Daily Mail, of course), the man
with the sneaky plan to turn the country into some socialist banana
republic.

How laughably tinny such jibes sound today. Seen in the rearview
mirror of a country hurtling towards a cliff-edge, undeterred by
Whitehall warnings of shortages in medicine, fuel and food, the
Miliband era looks enviable. You could quarrel and quibble with the
man, of course; you could pick holes all day long. But knowing what
was to come, how the next couple of episodes were to play out, would
you still have gone for the chillaxing blunderer [Cameron] who landed
us in a historic mess then grabbed the thick end of a million quid
from some poor sap of a publisher to stick his trotters up in a
£25,000 shed and yawn out a memoir?"

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/aug/20/jeremy-corbyn-moral-ed-miliband)

---

I dont completely blame them; the thinkspace is such a blithering
mess, it takes a regular person a lifetime to sort it out. Look at
science, instead of providing a half-sane theory for an odd
observation, they came up with an entire frickin multiverse.. 

This is science, how can other parts of analysis have any chance?

"Milenials are still immature"

---

When do I get my first memristor notebook? 

---

Impressions; I can do Richard Pryor - but not him directly, I do Eddie
Murphy doing Pryor. EM tells story when he was a kid, he did a joke
abt taking a dump, told in Pryor's voice: "You know that sometimes,
you are in bathroom, you are strainin, and strainin, and a little
pebble shit come out? Whatz up with dat m..t..ka?". Full of skillz I
am. Clinton, Ahnuld, too.

---

It's not a completely airheaded comment; but directors make choices,
and for it was trying to communicate IMO Roots did okay.

"@mattdelmont

Ronald Reagan, for example, said of *Roots*: 'Very frankly, I thought
the bias of all the good people being one color and all the bad people
being another was rather destructive.'"

---

"@kareem_carr

When you’re the only statistician in a room full of data scientists"

[Link](https://twitter.com/kareem_carr/status/1163551872457805825)

---

Little Denmark with that huge landmass; that is kinda absurd
actually. And with ice starting to melt.. the place might look
mouthwatering to some.

---

I'm doing bunch of shit for ed thinking there'll be ppl around. WTF.

---

No ice at either pole.. this has happened before, that's true. 33
million yrs ago.

---

Carbon capture and removal from air is definitely needed. For methane
too if possible.

"We Have Five Years To Save Ourselves From Climate Change, Harvard
Scientist Says"

[Link](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2018/01/15/carbon-pollution-has-shoved-the-climate-backward-at-least-12-million-years-harvard-scientist-says/amp/?__twitter_impression=true)

---

I saw the future man.. all cars had these blue lights on them using H2
wizzing by with no smell and sound, and no emissions.

---

Fantastic. Not just tar sands, but regular oil too.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Encouraging news on clean H2: Canadian engineers reveal breakthrough technology to extract hydrogen from oil with no CO2 emissions.<a href="https://t.co/aRYWoTTV51">https://t.co/aRYWoTTV51</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Decarbonization?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Decarbonization</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FuelCells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FuelCells</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SayNoToDiesel?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#SayNoToDiesel</a> <a href="https://t.co/qm2ya2KQ8f">pic.twitter.com/qm2ya2KQ8f</a></p>&mdash; GenCell Energy (@gencellenergy) <a href="https://twitter.com/gencellenergy/status/1163829342767591433?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 20, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@fuelcellsworks

Hyosung To Invest 1,000 billion wons to Expand Carbon Fiber Production
Capacity-Carbon fiber is a key material for the safe storage,
transportation, & utilization of H2".

---

Gov funding some cool stuff

"First Programmable Memristor Computer. Funded by the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency and the National Science Foundation"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Computing with brains!! Have you ever heard about memristors and why they could replace transistors in the future?<br>Yuvraj, one of our <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HZBSummerStudents?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HZBSummerStudents</a> focusses on this topic.<a href="https://t.co/FLEWnLsedx">https://t.co/FLEWnLsedx</a><a href="https://twitter.com/HZBde?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@HZBde</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/memristor?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#memristor</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energymaterials?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energymaterials</a> <a href="https://t.co/BPnHc1H5j0">pic.twitter.com/BPnHc1H5j0</a></p>&mdash; HZB@BESSY (@HZB_BESSY) <a href="https://twitter.com/HZB_BESSY/status/1163351240862064641?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 19, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">.<a href="https://twitter.com/UMich?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@UMich</a> engineers unveiled the world&#39;s first programmable, memristor-based computer. Learn how on-memory computing removes the memory bottleneck in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/AI?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#AI</a> computing: <a href="https://t.co/IQCT8Iac91">https://t.co/IQCT8Iac91</a></p>&mdash; Philip Lessner (@plessner) <a href="https://twitter.com/plessner/status/1162113738905923593?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 15, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Buffalo Gals/Leather Britches/Leslie’s Reel \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/2ZJxeOzCQqo)

---

"If ppl dont care / know squat abt issues, then why am I talking abt
them constantly?" asks tuber. Good question. You are entertainment,
for one. But more important, you are now a political leader. That's
something... Plus you might be supplying me oppo and "some other
people" might take that from me :) So keep doing what you r doing,
just don't get deluded about context.

---


*The Boys*, not bad. 

---

"Ever wondered where the recent increase in Methane emissions is
coming from?"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/Limits2Growth/status/1163761135142809600)

---

"But [Einstein's] revolution was not finished. The standard model of particle physics was certainly the triumph of this pragmatic style of
doing physics, but its triumph seems now to have also marked its limit. The standard model, and just possibly inflation, is about as far
as we could go with normal science. Since then, we have been mired, because what we need is a return to a revolutionary kind of science. Once again, we need a few seers. The problem is that there are now very few around, as a result of science having been done so long in a way that rarely recognized and barely tolerated them.
Between the early twentieth century and the last quarter century, science — and the academy in general — has become much more organized and professionalized. This means that the practice of 
normal science has been enshrined as the single model of good science. Even if everyone can see that a revolution is necessary, the most
powerful parts of our community have forgotten how to make one."

---

Cool.. Did not know Brit academia was so welcoming. 

"That's nice, but the idea is nuts — really nuts. It disagrees with
both special and general relativity. There is no other word for it but
'heretical'. However, the British academic world has a soft spot for
heretics, and Magueijo was thriving at Imperial College." --Smolin

---

Experiment: I redid Prez prediction with GDP YoY data; Model fit R^2 =
0.85, still good. 

Prediction: DJT current approv, net-aproval = -11.8 % (approval 42 %
minus 53.8 % disproval).

[Codebook](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/05/stats.html#prezyoy)

This one, with 1% GDP growth shows a toss up, even a tiny disadvantage
for Rep. With 2%, Reps have a little advantage. 

I reran 2016, shows (confirms) the obnoxious Dem loss. Growth was meager,
Dems were two terms in. Incumbent party lost, it failed to energize. 

---

2Q GDP YoY 2.28%. If trend continues it might go down another 1.6 by 2Q next year. 

[Codebook](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/05/stats.html#gdpyoy)

---

What cultural hot buttons SW contain? It's obvious. The empire is
Rome. Jedis are early Christians. Luke is Jesus. Notice in ep #3 how
unwilling he is on fight; turns himself in, he implores Vader. Drops
sword instead of going "dark".

---

Dude did a great job; [reimagined](https://youtu.be/to2SMng4u1k?t=206) fight scene from Star Wars

Same guy working on a [miniseries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ey68aMOV9gc&feature=youtu.be&t=722), "Vader", teases for S. Jackson role reappearing

"[I am still alive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdHMWmQZziY&feature=youtu.be).."

---

Siemens
[working](https://twitter.com/Siemens_Energy/status/1162985042496380929)
on hydrogen directly in turbines (seperate from electr tech). GE
[has](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/06/ge-h2.html) some
know-how on that.

BTW - there are some accounting allegations on GE? Real or a hit
job...?  U have to be careful around these fossil motherfuckers.

---

Whenever weird shit happens, I started to look more into whose
interests are protected. 

Japan: ultra low rates, weird. Whose interests are protected? Big
established companies who are neck deep in debt? CB saz low rates are
needed bcz of stagnant econ (which is a lie). The real issue is bad
banks, zombie companies lingering. They help them with low rates,
and/or creating bubbles in econ to push everyone in a certain
direction. But these comps only manage turnover debt with more debt,
contiuing their zombie state, holding back investment, inno. Econ does
not improve. CB says even lower rates are needed now. The cycle
continues.

Man up; clean out debt, bad credit, overtly. Enough with this bitchy
bullshit.

---

"@jimmy_dore

Youtube has been on a Demonetizing tear lately, Now you can't even
make fun of one the Oligarch's foot soldiers."

[Link](https://twitter.com/jimmy_dore/status/1163180851141603328)

---

Karaze. Awesome.

"Scientists testing method to pump oxygen into tar sands to extract
hydrogen gas (keeping carbon in the ground)"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/garrygolden/status/1163626453038260231)

---

Ha ha

"Tweet 1: 'Our Economy is very strong' 

Tweet 2: We need four rate cuts and maybe some quantitative easing, too"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/jacobpramuk/status/1163475253508616197)

---

What is this an open laundromat? Ah no it's BEV owners charging their BEVs.

<img width="400" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ECWNovcXsAI52PR?format=jpg" />

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Where full battery fears to tread. <a href="https://t.co/enE0aV6FKP">https://t.co/enE0aV6FKP</a></p>&mdash; james kaff (@kaffjamesnewtow) <a href="https://twitter.com/kaffjamesnewtow/status/1163489364061708288?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 19, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Former Comm. Director Anthony Buttofuoco is from the managerial class
of Reps, they are as Tooze says seperate form rank-and-file; took him
long enough to break with DJT.

AFAIK he started pol as fundraiser for Mitt (= managerial class).

---

We need to let go of these old, dead ideas. I draw the line on 1910
(so I get Einstein, Jung, and leave out Marx, Freud). Industrial era
is a cesspool of imbeciles - second wave truly did a number to these
people, along with most of humanity. Fucked in the brain they are. Let
go you must. mmmHHHHMMMmmm!

---

Adam Smith didn't have it all together either - so any critique based
on AS cannot be sound. Econs at the time didn't even know where money
comes from. 

"Marx used Adam Smith's writings to critique capitalism"

---

Best thing policy can do is help provide the alternative fuel at the
pump, ease, push the R&D of the vehicle that can use that fuel, and
let the customers get off fossil by not choosing it. Once customers
abandon it, fossil will die. Between two equally effective, equally
priced fuel, ppl will choose the cleaner fuel.

---

Drama school

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/emmalucia_/status/1163023372571369472)

---

I like how he judges labor, wages for inflation.

Also says gold is a commodity, nothing more. It surely cannot form the
basis of a world currency system.

"2 years ago I went to a very conservative conference where most of
the speakers said the USA was bankrupt and that high inflation was
coming.

I told everyone they should buy...US government bonds."

[Link](https://twitter.com/cullenroche/status/1162791257946464256)

---

Fitting ODE to data; why the hell not?
Mayochup. Cockamouse. OdeFit. People do it. It's a thing.

(Actually not a bad idea)

(geek) Solving ODE over and over, searching for optimal missing vars.. that's
what the shooting methods (for TPBVP) does at the end of the day,
isn't it?

[Link 1](https://kitchingroup.cheme.cmu.edu/pycse/pycse.html#orga222818)

[Link 2](http://matlab.cheme.cmu.edu/2011/09/29/fitting-a-numerical-ode-solution-to-data/)

[Link 3](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11278836/fitting-data-to-system-of-odes-using-python-via-scipy-numpy)
(/geek)

---

So there has been crazy innovation, all the way up to now. Lack of
innovation angle is false.

---

In 73 Sears Tower finished, the last Apollo mission to Moon returned
(Dec 72), Standard Model of physics done. So US went highest, furthest
in a lot of areas then stopped. But I believe after that things
expanded horizontally, not vertically. No more moon, but lots of
satellites, GPS, hell velcro. No new psy discoveries, but applying QM
to electronics, molecular chemistry. Nothing higher than ST, but many
more other skyscrapers. It's fine. Just a different emphasis.

---

Sympy is obnoxiously good; solve ODEs, simplify, apply Laplace,
integrate, differentiate.. There is huge amt of crud that can be
skipped bcz of this, more time left for modeling, and other
essentials.

---

Prediction markets; I dont know abt the top echelon, but there is no
doubt Warren is doing okay. 

Yang > Bootyjudge? That makes sense.

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/zerohedge/status/1162787237328838656)

---

Trump Tower is a few blocks away from the Hudson River, so Trump
himself will get in on the trade. Fishing from at the top of TT. NYC
will have a boom.

---

\#brexit Yep. You can't tax Google, and you'll have to eat chlorine
chicken, and four eyed fish.. They're gonna fish'em right out of the
Hudson River, and send them to you, and u'll have to eat them bcz u
have no other choice. Nothing lives in NY Hudson River except four
eyed fish, there's plenty there, Yankees will get rich off this
trade. Long fish.

---

Kinetic energy is 1/2 m V\*\*2. To increase energy, the effect of the
hit, u either increase V (velocity, hitting "fast"), or increase m
(mass). Increasing m is much easier than increasing V. Just put your
body behind hit. Which means legs. Same for arm twists; rotating with
the whole body. Plus such approaches will work at an older age u might
get slow as f\*ck, but u'll still have body mass. Gonbatte godasai bitch.

"But I cannot hit faster then!"

---

Work on your legs. Leg strength is more important then upper body
str. 

A good boxer can fight on one leg. 

"What body section should I exercise on to further my self-def
skills?"

---

This is the mother of all bubbles. Get out.

"Hong Kong wants to build artificial islands for housing"

"Residential property is a monster that we have to keep feeding our
childrens' futures to stop it from eating us today."

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/ComminsP/status/1162893932830707713)

---

Europe, deflationary spiral

[Video](https://youtu.be/NfJrRL6spaI?t=37)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Another big supplier for the automotive segment invests in hydrogen.<a href="https://t.co/bET03oKCtO">https://t.co/bET03oKCtO</a></p>&mdash; Carl Koinberg Henrikson (@CarlKoinberg) <a href="https://twitter.com/CarlKoinberg/status/1162814527609757696?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 17, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I listen to Brit cons talk abt Corbyn, their tone is always in a
manner painting C as unacceptable, even unconcienable as a choice for
PM. This has to be leftover feistiness from Thatcher era and beyond. I
hope they end up eating those words.

---

That's the other crazy thing abt ST; u can have an obscene number of
them, all seperate versions. So what Feynman said abt ST in 80s still
applies today; the theory itself should tell u how many dimensions
there are, which version is the correct one. But it doesn't.

---

"At the beginning of the first superstring revolution, it was
miraculous that any string theory existed at all. That there were
eventually five was even more surprising. The sheer improbability
cemented our belief in the project. If at first it was unlikely to
work and then it did work—well, this was nothing less than
wonderful. Today string theorists are ready to accept the existence of
a landscape containing a vast number of theories, based on much less
evidence than we needed twenty years ago to convince ourselves that a
single theory existed.So one place to draw the line is simply to say,
'I need to be persuaded that these theories exist, using the same
standards that were required decades ago to evaluate the original
five.' If you insist on those standards, then you will not believe in
the vast number of new theories" --Smolin

---

"German theoretical physicist Olaf Dreyer, who argues that the
incompatibility between quantum theory and general relativity can be
resolved only if we give up the idea that space is fundamental. He
proposes that space itself emerges from a more fundamental description
that is quite different. This point of view is also argued by several
theorists who did great work in the field of condensed-matter physics,
such as the Nobel laureate Robert Laughlin and the Russian physicist
Grigori Volovik" -- Smolin.

---

String Theory was thought to be a "theory of everything" then it
became a "theory of anything" (bcz u can push and pull it to any
direction, not good, cuz then the theory says nothing). [facepalm]

"A Theory of Anything"

---

ha ha.. Apparently some fixes were made for this problem during 90s,
but then things became even hairier.

"String Theory initially proposed to unify all the particles and
forces in nature. But as it was studied in the decade following the
1984 revolution, something unexpected happened. The alleged unified
theory fractured into many different theories: the five consistent
superstring theories in ten-dimensional spacetime, plus millions of
variants in the cases where some dimensions were wrapped up. As time
went on, it became clear that string theory itself was in need of
unification" -- Smolin

---

And the search for the perfect electrolysis catalyst continues.. these
guys says they found the one.

"Topology may be the key to unlocking the barrier in the search for
ideal catalysts"

[Link](https://www.cpfs.mpg.de/3075686/20190816)

---

What really helped US was FED's purchasing of non-performing bank
assets. So FED did something right, that time.

"But didn't spending in US after 2008 help them recover faster?"

---

"@AWeigmannn

Clean \#hydrogen, which South Africa is ideally placed to produce
because of its superior sunshine, prime wind and platinum abundance"

---

Used auto-cashier system at the grocery store. It is fantastic. I
would love to shop in a store with zero human workers.

---

PMI is a good sign of demand. Down like a rock. \#US

[Link](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/05/stats.html#pmi)

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;France’s Pragma has introduced the Alpha2.0 bike that’s good for 93 miles of range on a single charge—versus a range of 30 miles for e-bikes.&quot; <a href="https://t.co/DaBiXpK5TC">https://t.co/DaBiXpK5TC</a></p>&mdash; Graham Cooley (@GrahamCooley4) <a href="https://twitter.com/GrahamCooley4/status/1162392366227099649?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Team of researchers at the @UniversitySA has discovered a way to find and beat superbugs. 
@HarveyBiggs \#9News"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/9NewsAdel/status/1162288360578174976)


---

Not being supportive on "transgender athlete equality" is not a
rightist position. The stance is literally dumb, so it doesn't belong
anywhere in the spectrum. There is no right or left connotation to
this issue.

---

Whaaaaa!

"Young protesters in Hong Kong are directly challenging China's
Communist rulers. Inspired by kung fu legend Bruce Lee, their
leaderless structure is frustrating efforts by the authorities to
stymie them"

---

A story on phycist Edward Teller: at the start of the semester, 1st
class, he is talking abt administrative details, points to his TA,
says "this is my TA John, his room number is .. what was it John..?
(TA says 120).. okay, you divide by 2, and add 5, mine is 65. 

You see, I can't remember but I can derive".

Story relayed by another physicist who was a grad student then, who
says he learned an important lesson that day, how deriving can
actually help you remember. Surely Teller was being somewhat
tongue-in-cheek about it, but this does reflect how good scientists
think. U need to be able to derive from first principles. It will help
you not only understand, also to remember, by deriving it if
necessary. Oh I forgot "integration by parts". Well.. did you know IBP
formula is just an expanded, rearranged form of d(f(t)g(t))/dt?

---

Fractional reserve theory is false. See
[here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1057521914001070).
Article says "According to the financial intermediation theory of
banking, banks are merely intermediaries like other non-bank financial
institutions, collecting deposits that are then lent out. According to
the fractional reserve theory of banking, individual banks are mere
financial intermediaries that cannot create money, but collectively
they end up creating money through systemic interaction. A third
theory maintains that each individual bank has the power to create
money ‘out of nothing’ and does so when it extends credit (the credit
creation theory of banking)."

The right answer is the last one.

(@DiMartino, formerly from FED, seems to be confused abt the situation)

"[Vid](https://twitter.com/DiMartinoBooth/status/1161776791436087297) talking abt fractional reserve banking"

---

Hey man; just create another universe, there is an evil Picard in that
universe fitting all broken models to any data. 

Problem. Solved.

<img width="300" src="https://i.imgur.com/rgbzXNP.jpg"/>

---

Ba dum tss. Sounds like a joke.. Dude is talking about "controlling
randomness" to help his model fit better. [facepalm]

\#deepdoodoo \#reinf

"Actually the seed is also a hyper-parameter"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/danluu/status/1162139780299145216)

---

Now harder to get research data from FB? That's good, no?

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/thosjleeper/status/1162115844555661313)

---

"@bubjacks

We’re in this era of Big Data and we’re missing Big Theory"

---

"The world’s largest rocket [welding
tool](https://www.nasa.gov/press/2014/september/nasa-unveils-worlds-largest-spacecraft-welding-tool-for-space-launch-system/)
is right here in New Orleans. Crews at \#NASAMichoud are already using
the Vertical Assembly Facility to produce the liquid hydrogen tank for
\#Artemis 2."

-- NASA admin Beidenstein


[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/JimBridenstine/status/1162126672008794112/photo/2)

---

"Arschgeigekandidatwahlangst" saz one. Hah.

Biden is not a sure thing obviously.

"@chr1sa

I'll bet the Germans have a word for the complicated feeling of
knowing you're going to have to vote for Biden"

---

Magic year, 72-73. December 72 was the last manned moon mission, US
hasn't left lower Earth orbit ever since. Wage gains peaked, no
increases until now. Particle physics reached a plateau, no major
findings compared to what was found until 73.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The US is moving. 40 clean and green million bucks for hydrogen. <a href="https://t.co/Ov1MlC5Zzz">https://t.co/Ov1MlC5Zzz</a></p>&mdash; William Blomstrand (@william_sw) <a href="https://twitter.com/william_sw/status/1162049069579210752?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 15, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I re-did Keen's math in MathJax so math is viewable in HTML.

[Link](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2018/02/keen_math.html)

BTW, if Keen wants his ideas to spread more stuff like this would be
helpful, with running Py code and math that shows all the steps of its
derivation. [Minsky
software](https://sourceforge.net/projects/minsky/) might not fit
everyone, it looks like a great tool tho. I was told Minsky generates
Matlab, not preferred in sci computation by many. Younger students are
more comfortable with Py tools.

Also I'd think abt moving Minksy to Github.

---




