# Tweets - Log

Oliphant saz protocol overloading (like the + operator) is one of the
key reasons why he chose Python over other langs.

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6PY-Y3t4oxg)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Norwegian scientist: ‚ÄòNo way‚Äô of reaching climate neutrality without hydrogen <a href="https://t.co/iJ5Tsn8lC1">https://t.co/iJ5Tsn8lC1</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GreenHydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GreenHydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen4Climate?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen4Climate</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/renewableenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#renewableenergy</a></p>&mdash; Gilman Industries (@GilmanHydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/GilmanHydrogen/status/1192134027966402561?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 6, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Targeted bombings of cartel compounds? Mansions even? That requires
AMLO going extrajudicial on their ass and bypassing MX military (bcz of
possible leakage).

---

Hmm.. should US fight drug cartels through stealthy paramilitary
forces, hell maybe even poisoning the drug supply causing demand to
fall?

That's like, a Tom Clancy novel dude. *Clear and Present Danger*,
1993.

[Drug War](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/11/war-on-drugs.html)

---

That's weird. I'd just recently watched a
[docu](https://youtu.be/LpIyaIHsJbc?t=343) on them; apparently there
is a big Mormon presence there, and they fell into some trouble w drug
gangs. Mitt's family is from this region.. Anyway I thought docu was
going to say after losing some members to gang killing they'd turn the
other cheek while reaching to that can of... WHOOP-ASS!  No. That
didnt happen, docu showed bunch of guard posts..  The Mormons have
some arms, there was some whoop-ass but not at the scale the gangs
threathened them.

"On Monday, gunmen killed three women and six children from a
Mexican-American Mormon family in northern Mexico"

---

Stop bitchin.. You not H.N.I.C. Double M.G.... I.D.D.Q.D.

The HNIC is at MIT teaching ODE. Nam sayin'?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">T-Mobile got this merger approved after spending nearly $200,000 at Trump&#39;s hotels.<br><br>This is a disastrous decision.<br><br>When we&#39;re in the White House we&#39;re going to end this corruption and break them up. <a href="https://t.co/4mkx55otkd">https://t.co/4mkx55otkd</a></p>&mdash; Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) <a href="https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1192131342881951749?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 6, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Talking smack on Twitter eh?

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">That is grammatically incorrect</p>&mdash; zerohedge (@zerohedge) <a href="https://twitter.com/zerohedge/status/1191768439561555969?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Companies' (of SP500) earnings decreased by 2.7% so far.

[Link](https://lipperalpha.refinitiv.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/SP500_19Q3_DashBoard_191004.png)

---

Wut?? Is this true? *The Guardian* lost it?

Don't make kick your ass TG.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Guardian Media Group,publisher of the Guardian and Observer,sold the remaining 50.1% of its stake to Apax Partners,who now own 100%. Whatever the Guardian used to be in terms of being &#39;left wing&#39;, it certainly isn&#39;t now. A quick look at &#39;Apax Partners&#39; will immediately show that!</p>&mdash; TheMasses (@HopePM4) <a href="https://twitter.com/HopePM4/status/1192110609984299008?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 6, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

From Urbandictionary: "'Fo shizzle my nizzle' means 'I concur with you
whole heartedly my Africian american brother'" 

---

I guess I was thinking of chiseling as in scraping.

---

If US regulators want to, we can rock'n roll. I'll tell you where to
lay down the law. Bring in the hurt. How to chizzle the shizzle

(I dont even know what that means)

---

Taking little samples of the Rosenbrock bitch

<img src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EIsG3lBXkAIL0XA?format=png&name=small" width="400"/>

---

Fire those retro-rockets, shoot the fruton torpidos, and like uhhh-uhhh make us go - that way.

\#butthead \#trek

<img src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EIr8QVZWoAAURQU?format=png&name=small" width="300"/>

---

They do? AFAIK all deep net models are automatically differentiable
(as good as symbolic differentiation). If this is true, this person
(whoever they are) must be dealing with freaky cost functions.

"Most machine learning tasks ‚Äî from natural language processing to
image classification to translation and many others ‚Äî rely on
derivative-free optimization to tune parameters and/or hyperparameters
in their models. "

---

What is going on in Lebanon? Lebanon is a weird place; technically it
shouldn't even exist, it was created mainly [due to
French](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2017/12/palestine.html#lebanon).

But again lack of leadership (which especially struggles to be
representative of a made-up place like Lebanon) can be a cause.

---

Interesting. That's a culture code right there.

"Thanks to the Austrian scientist Peter Schuster and his associates,
though, the RNA library is not a lost cause. One of the grandfathers
of computational biology in Europe, Schuster is now a retired
professor at the University of Vienna, where he taught since the
1970s. A first encounter with Schuster seems to confirm the
stereotypes that many Europeans have of Austrians. A jovial man with a
generous girth and a wry sense of humor, Schuster would not have been
out of place in the traditional Viennese caf√©s of the last days of the
Austro-Hungarian Empire, where formidably well-educated polymaths held
forth on everything from psychoanalysis to quantum theory. He is a
scientist in that tradition, a purebred intellectual conversant with a
broad variety of subjects. Not taking himself too seriously, Schuster
opines with a tongue-in-cheek attitude, peppering the gravest
discourse with humorous asides. He epitomizes an oft-repeated saying
about how Austrians view life and its many challenges: ‚ÄúThe situation
may be hopeless, but it is never serious'" -- Wagner, *Arrival of the Fittest*

---

She is right. Woke movies.. A lot of women don't like this stuff
either, clearly, so why do they keep making them?

\#herminator

[Link](https://youtu.be/BeiC-hYTSbQ)

---

Faux innovators of Silicon Valley.. who cares about what they think of
anything? Did Paypal revolutionize electronic payments? If it did
would there be an entire crypto space trying solve the same problem?

"@mozilla

When asked by @inafried why @venmo transactions are public by default,
exec @Dan_Schulman said: 'I think the boundaries between private and
public are much more blurred than it was when we were growing up.'"

---

Knowledge is not only used in knowledge products, but it is
increasingly being subtituted for labor, hard materials and now
energy. Instead of digging up some hole in the ground and getting at
already-stored energy in the form of dead animals, we are now passing
electricity through water making use of that knowledge to store
energy.

---

"'Our goal is clear. We want Germany to be the global number one in
hydrogen technology,' said economy minister Peter Altmaier at the
government‚Äôs hydrogen stakeholder conference in Berlin. This concerns
not only basic research, but also applications at an industrial scale,
he said.

The government sees hydrogen made from renewables or from natural gas
in combination with carbon capture and storage (CCS) as a key part of
Germany‚Äôs future energy system"

[Link](https://www.cleanenergywire.org/news/germany-must-beat-asia-hydrogen-technology-race-government)

---



"@jeremycorbyn

Secure a credible deal in three months.

Put it to the people for the final say, with the option to remain, in six months.

That‚Äôs our Brexit policy"

---

That looks fantastic. Awesome tech.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">[<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HMG?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HMG</a>] Introducing the first-ever all-hydrogen Hyundai HDC-6 Neptune truck, showing a possible future of hydrogen fuel-cell commercial vehicles. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hyundai?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hyundai</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NEPTUNE?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NEPTUNE</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FCEV?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FCEV</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CommercialVehicle?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CommercialVehicle</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NACVShow2019?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NACVShow2019</a> <a href="https://t.co/aw4a4IvBbR">pic.twitter.com/aw4a4IvBbR</a></p>&mdash; Hyundai Motor Group (@HMGnewsroom) <a href="https://twitter.com/HMGnewsroom/status/1191202455242952704?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Beautiful jumpüê≥üê¨ <a href="https://t.co/ZzkfnpkQQ0">pic.twitter.com/ZzkfnpkQQ0</a></p>&mdash; Ocean diversity (@Oceandiversity2) <a href="https://twitter.com/Oceandiversity2/status/1191689153454338048?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

If 'better policies" don't matter all the time for electability, why
talk about them? Good question. It all goes back to the Dem decision
makers. We are saying act more econ anti-right bcz it will be better
in the long run. If Bill did this back in 90s, Dems would be better
position electorally today. As it turns out Dems are now 1 Prez short
out of 6, with all the loss of judge appt that entails, and also now
centrism having run its course with Obama there is the "Orange Hitler"
problem.


---

@NPR

Microsoft's division in Japan tested a 4-day workweek ‚Äî with no loss
in pay for employees. The company says that:

‚Ä¢ Productivity rose by 40%

‚Ä¢ Electricity costs fell by 23%

‚Ä¢ Meetings were put on a diet, cut from 60 minutes to 30

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/NPR/status/1191675804423467011)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I don&#39;t think we realize what we gave up for cars. <a href="https://t.co/v8xOIDYQ3P">pic.twitter.com/v8xOIDYQ3P</a></p>&mdash; Queen Anne Greenways (@QAGreenways) <a href="https://twitter.com/QAGreenways/status/1191244275356319746?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"\#Hydrogen used to be a kind of 'Cinderella of the gas industry'. Now
we realise: it is sexy, says German economy minister @peteraltmaier"

---

Not surprising at all.. many animals can walk, navigate, which means
they can form control actions between visual input, goal,
obstacles. Pushing against the ground for actuating is not that
different (in fact harder) than turning some wheel and pressing a
pedal.

"[R]ats learned to drive tiny cars for science"

[Link](https://t.co/DRdyTq35mI?amp=1)

---


Black ppl don't say "poh-lice". Southerners say "poh-lice". The
so-called black accent is based on the South.

---

Was there ever a comic character based on owls? There is for bats,
spiders, fish, ants. Never heard a famous one for owls.

---

Haha. Odd meme. I like it.

Owls crack me up.

<img width="300" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EIqjCdyWsAMX-Am?format=jpg&name=900x900"/>

---

"@SmallpixelCar

Something only a Lidar car can do: running autonomously in dark"

[Link](https://twitter.com/SmallpixelCar/status/1191579135753121792)

---

"@AdamDRains

I‚Äôm continually impressed by those who retain enough mental energy at
the end of a workday for creative hobbies, socialising, science
communication, activism, etc.

My brain simply taps out and hoarsely whispers a request to consume,
in order, 'coffee, media, dinner, sleep'".

---

Solve PDEs wout mesh based methods? Hell there are RBF approximation
based methods to solve that too!

---

Yeah - f--k the mesh. I dont like mesh based methods. Go analytic, or
approximately analytic and compute that.

---

'But Europe needed a common currency'. Europe already had a common
currency. It was called the Deutsche Mark.

Bring back national currencies and layer the Bancor system on
top. Surplus exporters as well as surplus importers need to pay a
price for being in the surplus. Bancor would calibrate that
automagically.

And someone please nuke the Swedish Central Bank.

"@fteconomics

We need to admit the euro was a mistake"

[Link](https://www.ft.com/content/35b27568-f734-11e9-bbe1-4db3476c5ff0)


---

"@phildobbie

@ProfSteveKeen and I argue about Brexit ‚Äì a Brexiteer and Remainer
agree on one thing ‚Äì the vote should never have happened"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/phildobbie/status/1191121959746183175)

---

I bet mainland Chink "history" is full of some dumbass shit too.

---

I hear Russkie narrative is quite moronic too. Talked abt it briefly
[here](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2014/10/alex.html)

It's all about finding that happy path it seems, a narrative that will
show you a winner most of the time (if a loser, u redirect it to
behing held down, it's never your fault). "Tigger came from Central
Asia" says one -completely false, some punk motherfuckers came but
melted away- which probably has to do wanting to associate with
something outside the current region, and conveniently blame the loss
of Balkans, and other regional troubles on "others" who were "the
wrong Turks anyway".

I think psychologists are wasting their time analyzing singular
people. They should focus on national psyches exclusively. There is
gold here.

---

There are codes, which are transmitted organically. Then, seperate
from that, is the national narrative which is second wave and mostly
bullshit, it is top-down, created by others. As Gellner
[says](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2013/03/allegience-of-pion.html),

>Nationalism is not what it seems, and above all it is not what it
 seems to itself. The cultures it claims to defend and revive are
 often its own inventions, or are modified out of all
 recognition. [.. While it is being created] nationalism uses the
 pre-existing, historically inherited proliferation of cultures or
 cultural wealth, though it uses them very selectively, and it most
 often transforms them radically. Dead languages can be revived,
 traditions invented, quite fictitious pristine purities restored
 [..]. The cultural shreds and patches used by nationalism are often
 arbitrary historical inventions. Any old shred and patch would have
 served as well [..].

But some countries are better at this than others. The US narrative
taught in schools.. "Why did we seperate from England?". "Because
ruling from a distance was not effective". It is not non-sense.

Here is what TR text says abt why it lost in WWI. Uh, like, our big
ally Germany lost, so we lost, indirectly, by *association*.

Now that sounds like a load of bunk. It's like a tough guy story,
"yeah I've would have done some shit, but, they held me back son, I
was gonna bring it. Kick some ass.. Yeah!". Or like a boxer, "well, I
beat the other guy, but the referee, that guy man, did not give me
points. It was a technical loss.. that's what it was".

At least the narrative indirectly admits it was the junior partner in
the war effort, but the general outline is still somewhat 'lacking'.

üòíüòíüòíüòíüòí

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Havyard Taking Next Step in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> System for Large Ships with Fuel Cells from PowerCell--Company is entering approval phase &amp; has signed agreements with provider Linde Engineering for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> tanks <a href="https://twitter.com/PowercellA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@PowercellA</a> for <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a>--<a href="https://t.co/Hc7m00XOzR">https://t.co/Hc7m00XOzR</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://t.co/stVgMpcOF8">pic.twitter.com/stVgMpcOF8</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1191410292070203394?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The common pt of all protests? Lack of observant leadership. Follow
what ppl need the most, get the data, provide the solution, calibrate
for region etc. With enough right / left representation it can work.

With no leadership, we might be sleepwalking into a collapse of
everything second wave. 

---

@h2_view

‚ÄúHydrogen has long been called the fuel of the future. The future has begun.‚Äù - Nikolas Iwan, H2 Mobility‚Äôs Managing Director

---

"@william_sw

PowerCell sign development contract for maritime zero emissions solution with Havyard Group"

---

Ultra-low rates are probably the result of boomer psychology that
fears busts of any kind. Keep avoding busts, then big names get bigger
"I see these names 'on TV' all the time, I like the name 'Boeing'".
Nothing gets "creatively destructed", companies can keep on living,
even under huge debt, like a zombie thanks to low rates.

Parental version of this, to extent they could poison their millenial
children, has to be the 'participation trophy' given in 'safe spaces'
for kids running away from 'microagressions'.

---

"@NisreenAlKhatib

I am co-director of @QudsNen & I find myself helpless as #Twitter has
today morning suspended 3 verified accounts of the network I work
with, w/out offering reasons. Quds News Network is an essential site
for publishing the Palestinian content in Arabic & English to the
world!"

---

"@ninaoyama

So you‚Äôre telling me Warm Regards is fine, but Moist Regards is
‚Äúweird‚Äù and ‚Äúmakes the office uncomfortable‚Äù?

Ok boomer".

---

The main villain of the show was, per the movie, the Goauld, which are
modeled on pharaohs. Pharaohs are of course very much tied the agro
era. 

---

Hah. In TV show *Stargate* one of the worst villians, named Aschen, are
space-faring farm folk. They biologically exterminate entire planets,
and use it as farm land. Some Roman level genocidal shit.

F--ing farmers.

---

@EFF

Have you been looking for any easy way to explain the harms of face
recognition to friends and family? This video should be your first
stop.

[Link](https://twitter.com/EFF/status/1188470154625044480)

---

It didn't take a generation. You were born there with codes of UK,so
it was effortless for you. It wasnt a process whereby slowly by slowly
ur parents were adapting and u were the culmination of that. For u it
was a snap.

"My parents came to UK, it took a generation to adapt"

---

That's where he effed up; Typical *I Am CRM* - listening is the
weakness, area of development. Then, the question is who to listen,
how much to listen, when to listen.. they fumble around these things,
usually messing up. He categorized they guy as "bureucrat just trying
to cover his ass", and didn't listen.

>Susskind, *The 1 Percent Doctrine*
>
>"The 'what ifs' can kill you.
>
>Something missed. A failure of will. A turn in one direction when the
other way was the right path.
>
>Over time, people tend to get past them. We did what we could, they
say, and move on.
>
>But, in terms of the tragedy of 9/11, a particular regret lingers for
those who might have made a difference.
>
>The alarming August 6, 2001, memo from the CIA to the President--"Bin
Laden Determined to Strike in US"--has been widely noted in the past
few years.
>
>But, also in August, CIA analysts flew to Crawford to personally brief
the President--to intrude on his vacation with face-to-face alerts.
>
>The analytical arm of CIA was in a kind of panic mode at this
point. Other intelligence services, including those from the Arab
world, were sounding an alarm. The arrows were all in the red. They
didn't know place or time of an attack, but something was coming. The
President needed to know.
>
>Verbal briefings of George W. Bush are acts of almost inestimable
import in the affairs of the nation--more so than is the case for
other recent presidents. He's not much of a reader, this President,
and never has been, despite White House efforts to trumpet which
serious books he is reading at various times. He's not a President who
sees much value in hearing from a wide array of voices--he has made
that clear. His circle of truly trusted advisers is small--smaller as
President, in many ways, than it was when he was governor. But he's a
very good listener and an extremely visual listener. He sizes people
up swiftly and aptly, watches them carefully, and trusts his eyes. It
is a gift, this nonverbal acuity, that he relies on in managing the
almost overwhelming duties of the presidency: countless decisions each
day, each one important; a daunting array of issues to grasp; an
endless stream of politicized experts and expert politicos, all
speaking in earnest tones. What does George W. Bush do? He makes it
personal. He may not have had a great deal of experience, especially
in foreign affairs, before arriving in the job, but--because of his
trust in these interpretive abilities--he doesn't view that as a
deficit. The expert, sitting before him, has done the hard work, the
heavy lifting, and the President tries to gauge how "certain" they are
of what they say, even if the issues may be unfamiliar to him. Do they
seem nervous or unsure? Are they fudging? Why do they think what they
do‚Ä¶and what do they think of him? That last part is very important.
>
>The trap, of course, is that while these tactile, visceral markers can
be crucial--especially in terms of handling the posturing of top
officials--they sometimes are not. The thing to focus on, at certain
moments, is what someone says, not who is saying it, or how they're
saying it.
>
>And, at an eyeball-to-eyeball intelligence briefing during this urgent
summer, George W. Bush seems to have made the wrong choice.
>
>He looked hard at the panicked CIA briefer.
>
>'All right,' he said. 'You've covered your ass, now.'"

---

Where to have TR food in NY? 386 Third Avenue. 

Dish: Cabbage stuffed with ground beef

I took many ppl here for fine dining. 

---

Before that I was working at another firm near WTC, 99ish, remember
going to an excellent Korean udon place nearby for lunch sometimes and
reading abt the Prez campaign from MSM papers.

---

Yeah I remember the .com boom and bust... The consulting firm I was in helped code up something around pets let's just say..

---

"@Femi_Sorry

If someone like me, who'd studied EU law in 2 universities and in two
different languages and who'd worked in EU affairs for 2 years in
Brussels, still wasn't fully informed in 2016 (I knew nothing of
Northern Ireland), then the general public wasn't making an informed
decision"

---

Harding of Guardian talking abt being spied on

[Link](https://youtu.be/97MWOERY_dE?t=1039)

---

Haha.. R. Liddle - sound like a jackass alright

[Link](https://youtu.be/EP6vyA1749M?t=405)

---

California.. the immigrant state. Is that why its public services
suck? Get bunch of people from anywhere so they don't make many
demands of the state? They just work and pay tax like a slave? So
public schools suck, privatized power is only good for starting fires.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Texas Luring Jobs Away From California With Promises Of Electricity<a href="https://t.co/gYntnivgtT">https://t.co/gYntnivgtT</a></p>&mdash; The Babylon Bee (@TheBabylonBee) <a href="https://twitter.com/TheBabylonBee/status/1190780630482792454?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 3, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">There are 150 billionaires in the UK while 14 million people live in poverty. <br><br>In a fair society there would be no billionaires and no one would live in poverty.</p>&mdash; Jeremy Corbyn (@jeremycorbyn) <a href="https://twitter.com/jeremycorbyn/status/1190186804785418242?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 1, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@NPR

Anthropologist David Graeber asked people if they thought their jobs
were valuable. He was startled by the results.

'Between 37%-40% of all people who had jobs were convinced if their
job didn't exist, it would make no difference at all.'"

[Link](https://www.npr.org/2019/10/28/774067928/bs-jobs-how-meaningless-work-wears-us-down)

---

"@hxhassan

Iraqi protests are probably the most remarkable regional event in half
a decade, with remarkable implications. But it‚Äôs astonishing how
under-reported they have been in mainstream media.  good articles but
truly amazing how this isn‚Äôt covered play by play"

[Link](https://twitter.com/hxhassan/status/1190666163270934528)

---

Scifi TV show has a hologram computer interface (a person). Supposed
to be an innocuous looking someone of course, a generic interface. I
take one look, "ah, it's that actress from the show *Regenesis*". Now
I know there is more to this hologram otherwise they'd just pick some1
less experienced. \#overSciFi

---

True story: Elizabeth Taylor wore this ring to a party where she sat
next to Princess Margaret.

PM: Don‚Äôt you think that‚Äôs a little vulgar?

ET: Would you like to try it on?

PM says yes, and can‚Äôt stop staring once it‚Äôs on her own finger.

Pause

ET: Not so vulgar now, is it...?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In 1965 the CEO-to-worker pay ratio was 20:1.<br><br>Last year, it was 287:1.<br><br>Workers aren&#39;t struggling because they&#39;re not working hard enough.<br><br>They&#39;re struggling because more and more wealth is going to the people on top.<br><br>We&#39;re going to reverse that and give workers a raise.</p>&mdash; Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) <a href="https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1190369125291503621?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 1, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The Conservatives&#39; ùòÅùó≤ùó∫ùóΩùóºùóøùóÆùóøùòÜ pause of fracking is an election stunt to try and win a few votes.<br><br>Boris Johnson described fracking as ‚Äòglorious news for humanity‚Äô. We cannot trust him.<br><br>Labour would ban fracking. That&#39;s real change.</p>&mdash; Jeremy Corbyn (@jeremycorbyn) <a href="https://twitter.com/jeremycorbyn/status/1190564813430296577?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 2, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Snowden, *Permanent Record*

"The EU, still under the sway of this postwar universalist idealism,
now became the first transnational body to put these principles into
practice, establishing a new directive that seeks to standardize
whistleblower protections across its member states, along with a
standardized legal framework for privacy protection. In 2016, the EU
Parliament passed the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the
most significant effort yet made to forestall the incursions of
technological hegemony‚Äîwhich the EU tends to regard, not unfairly, as
an extension of American hegemony.

The GDPR treats the citizens of the European Union, whom it calls
‚Äúnatural persons,‚Äù as also being ‚Äúdata subjects‚Äù‚Äîthat is, people who
generate personally identifiable data. In the US, data is usually
regarded as the property of whoever collects it. But the EU posits
data as the property of the person it represents, which allows it to
treat our data subjecthood as deserving of civil liberties
protections"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Best printer for a Mac? Don&#39;t want one that forces you to register with their ink refill program. Just a simple printer that does old fashioned just prints words and images on paper without having to send info to Deep State and advertisers, too.</p>&mdash; Stacy Herbert (@stacyherbert) <a href="https://twitter.com/stacyherbert/status/1190296747890880512?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 1, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I don‚Äôt try to offend, but the more people are offended by a joke, particularly on twitter, the funnier I find it. And the angrier the tweet, the more chance of me using it and turning it to laughs and cash. PC culture isn‚Äôt killing comedy. It‚Äôs driving it. As it always did üôè</p>&mdash; Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais) <a href="https://twitter.com/rickygervais/status/1190041146585686016?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Automatic diff on RBF... So the crazy ass cost function which had an
RBF in bombs, but sample from the crazy-ass function, create an RBF,
autodiff and use _that_ to move in a "trust region" can work.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Lots of objections to class war appearing. Totally agree. Assault on welfare state, slashing top rate and corporate tax while imposing cuts on everyone else, driving people to food banks, Universal Credit, pay freezes, growth in zero hours. Where will it end? FFS.</p>&mdash; Ed Miliband (@Ed_Miliband) <a href="https://twitter.com/Ed_Miliband/status/1190052382442500097?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Write code that is easy to delete, not easy to extend"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Everything you need to know about the latest development in the powertrain of choice: <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> fuel cell power from <a href="https://twitter.com/Cummins?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Cummins</a>. <a href="https://t.co/Zwriid6OAA">https://t.co/Zwriid6OAA</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Cummins?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Cummins</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NACVShow2019?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#NACVShow2019</a> <a href="https://t.co/8mj7x7yLEi">pic.twitter.com/8mj7x7yLEi</a></p>&mdash; Cummins Inc. (@Cummins) <a href="https://twitter.com/Cummins/status/1190001061727264768?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---
