# Tweets - Week 31

[The Meat Purveyors - Lady Muleskinner](https://youtu.be/4Id6moE8iLs)

\#music

---


This debate has less gimmicks, weird exchanges. At least in terms of
overall flair, it is better.

\#demdebate

---

Biden looks tired, mellow; but when young, with more energy, that's
when he was doing all that dumb stuff. So now he looks like shit was
kicked out of him, but perversely, he is making less mistakes because
of that.

\#demdebate

---

de Blasio, good job. Kamala didn't disappoint.

[https://www.taxthehell.com](https://www.taxthehell.com)

\#demdebate

---

Blah blah, number 1. Blah blah number 2. Very tired formula.

\#demdebate

---

"Health insurers that treat millions of seniors have overcharged
Medicare by nearly $30 billion over the past three years alone"

[Link](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2019/07/16/740964958/records-show-medicare-advantage-plans-overbill-taxpayers-by-billions-annually)

---

Very mature guys. 

"[@masonporter](https://twitter.com/masonporter/status/1156705511561031681)

In statistical mechanics, people do it with many bodies."

"@monsoon0

How we do it …

Analysts do it continuously and smoothly."

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hong Kong protestors are on another level. Here they’re using lasers to avoid facial recognition cameras. A cyber war against Chinese artificial intelligence. <a href="https://t.co/t1hIczr5Go">pic.twitter.com/t1hIczr5Go</a></p>&mdash; Alessandra (@alessabocchi) <a href="https://twitter.com/alessabocchi/status/1156513770254012416?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

U gotta love freedom of speech. Just a random guy.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">fuck off</p>&mdash; Tom (@teafenn) <a href="https://twitter.com/teafenn/status/1156655448906489856?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

And the bad news keep piling up...

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">... “With the Tesla Superchargers, they don’t publicise it, but if you &#39;supercharge&#39; a Tesla, one supercharge takes 20 charge cycles off the end of that battery’s life. Two supercharges takes 40 charges.</p>&mdash; Niklas Holming (@NHolming) <a href="https://twitter.com/NHolming/status/1156661133958361089?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Wahahahahaa

"But, u can throw a Tesla in there, it blows up and that makes a good flame too! "

---

Grand. Steel production makes up around 7% of total global emissions. Kill that a good amt of gh gas goes away.

Summary: Europeans want to switch to H2 for steelmaking, but it needs to come from renewable sources, Sweden has advantage here. 

BTW: for steel prod, there are no clean alternatives to H2. They use
the gas directly in the furnace to create a flame at very high
temparatures.

[Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-07-30/fossil-free-energy-supply-gives-sweden-edge-in-green-steel-race)

---

"We have slashed and burned the core features of childhood ...

In the past 10,000 years — a barely perceptible sliver of evolutionary time — virtually every feature of childhood has changed, particularly in industrialized societies. Instead of growing up in a mixed-age collective, our children spend most of their time indoors with same-age peers. Gone are the days of evading grown-ups: Constant supervision is expected. Recess, the last vestige of free play, is on the brink of extinction. I contributed to this myself as a camp counselor, shepherding kids to structured activities, convinced that by teaching them rules or settling their disputes, I was helping them grow.

I don’t think this anymore.
"

[Link](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/what-have-we-done-to-childhood/2019/07/24/547715f6-ae48-11e9-a0c9-6d2d7818f3da_story.html)

---

New muted word: AGI

---

"At a certain scale of BEV, it becomes cheaper to actually put in
hydrogen infrastructure and that’s what has, probably, along with some
other factors, driven China to change its five-year plan from BEV to
FCEV and in doing so, creating a storm in the market."

[Link](https://m.miningweekly.com/article/south-africa-urged-to-seize-massive-platinum-boosting-fuel-cell-opportunity-2019-07-31/rep_id:3861)

---

Huge funds divesting away from fossil is the canary in the coal mine - no pun intended. 

"When The Fossil Fuel Industry Pops, It Will Be Way Bigger Than The
2008 Financial Crisis"

[Link](https://www.sciencealert.com/fossil-fuel-industry-pops-way-bigger-than-2008-financial-crisis-renewable-energy)

---

Ja!

"Uber eine mit dem Problem der Rakete Zusammenhéingende Aufgabe der Variationsrechnung"

---

Uww. Tssss

"@Keubiko

Panasonic appears to have just sacked the CEO of the North American biz that handles Tesla.   Buried in a PR footnote."

[Link](https://twitter.com/Keubiko/status/1156531794600222720)

---

Looks really bad.

"@phoennix10

Another Tesla, another fire. It probably exploded".

[Link](https://twitter.com/phoennix10/status/1156206736413323264)

---

Reps are pro family.

JFK was a great President.

Right.

"@adam_tooze

A Commission reporting to JFK in 1963 called for the US to introduced paid maternity leave. Half a century the US and Papua New Guinea are the only countries to offer no leave."

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">If you retweet one thing today, please make it this ........ John McDonnell facing down <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/AlastairCampbell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#AlastairCampbell</a> <a href="https://t.co/ivHS8v8Nco">pic.twitter.com/ivHS8v8Nco</a><br>Restoring honesty in to politics <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/WeBackCorbyn?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#WeBackCorbyn</a></p>&mdash; Jerry Hicks (@JerryHicksUnite) <a href="https://twitter.com/JerryHicksUnite/status/1156212825406279682?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 30, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"How the climate crisis has sparked an exodus to the US"

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2019/jul/29/guatemala-climate-crisis-migration-drought-famine)

---

The bottom half of my notebook is obnoxiously magnetic. WTF do they have in there? It even f--ks up a compass when it's near. 

---

Biiiaaaaatttch! 

```python
from sympy import symbols, Eq, dsolve, Function, pprint

x, y = symbols('x y', cls=Function)                                                                                                    

t = symbols('t')                                                                                                                       

eqs = [Eq(x(t).diff(t), x(t)-1), Eq(y(t).diff(t), x(t) + 2*y(t) - 3)]                                                                  

pprint (dsolve(eqs, [x(t), y(t)]) )
```

```text
⎡             t                 2⋅t       t    ⎤
⎣x(t) = - C₂⋅ℯ  + 1, y(t) = C₁⋅ℯ    + C₂⋅ℯ  + 1⎦
```

---

In a broad sci curriculum, I dont think it is necessary to include
Laplace Transform. Or gazillion diff ways to solve ODE's
analytically. Skip all that, save time or other things, use SymPy
`dsvolve`.

---

Cant stress how fantastic the Naidu book is on Control Theory; he is
now working on prostetic limbs I believe, trying to open source the
construction of a cheap one..?

---

Now Deep Shit kept at minimum, but intertwined with a concise math
model is more interesting to me. Like
[this](https://ragulpr.github.io/2016/12/22/WTTE-RNN-Hackless-churn-modeling/)
churn prediction model; it already made some choices on Survival
Analysis (solid math), Weibull distribution (solid math), then the
model brings everything to a point where you have to estimate some
stuff, than you hand it over to.. the shit.

---

<a name='baltimore'/>

Baltimore's problems are not the making of Cummings obviously; they
are the result of the so-called "drug war". DJT's thing is "if you can
me hit with some stuff, I can hit you with some stuff" which, looking
at the state of Baltimore, he can. And, looking at [this](https://www.themarshallproject.org/2015/04/29/david-simon-on-baltimore-s-anguish) article it
seems B was still bad during 2015.

---

Too funny. The quote is from David Simon BTW who was the creator of
*The Wire*, a show abt all the suck in Baltimore.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">“What did Tom Wolfe write about cops? They all become Irish?” Why black cops don’t hesitate to beat black men: <a href="http://t.co/Z4S9jRGyXd">http://t.co/Z4S9jRGyXd</a></p>&mdash; Ratter Baltimore (@ratterbaltimore) <a href="https://twitter.com/ratterbaltimore/status/593458324705804288?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 29, 2015</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Warren landed a good one on Delaney. "Why bother to run as Dem
President nom if you are saying no all the time?" Delaney looked like
a punched-out dildo for a few seconds. LMAO.

\#demdebate

---

Warren, Bernie did great. 

\#demdebate

---

You wouldn't say "I offer social security, so no private pensions" but
you could say "I offer public security, e.g. *policing*, so you can't have
private security force". Which one is health care like? I'd say the
latter.

---

Corporate media / CNN tried whole night to knock down Warren and
Sanders. 

\#demdebate \#timblack

[Vid](https://youtu.be/EFyTs_LmvL4?t=113)

---

"It's not a business!" (Bernie on health insurance). So good. 

\#demdebate

---

Delaney is such a dildo. Cant wait for the 2% hammer to come down. 

\#demdebate

---

That's a clever way of showing voltage.

[Video](https://youtu.be/m4jzgqZu-4s)

---

So basically losing money in China (too)

"@BertelSchmitt

That $TSLA Shanghai factory comes with strings attached: Generate tax
revenue, or hand back the factory"

---

Unfinished SG Atlantis: an ep on where Ronon got his Travelers gun
(Ronon wonderfully played by J. Momoa, in his less famous days).

---

Toggling preview in org-mode needed to diff key combos. So I added a
global flag to Emacs init, and one func flips flag and runs one func
or the other based on it. Elisp rules.

Less keystrokes is the motto.

---

Who names their code `org-ctrl-c-ctrl-c`? The exact key strokes to run
the function is the name of the funcion. Seriously..

---

I cant believe how green these ppl are on politics... They talk abt it
as if they are in a knitting circle. Stitch n' bitch...! Literally
half the stuff said in this show has no sci basis.

---

So effin stupid... why is this even allowed? Cant be trans and compete
in your new gender.

"Transgender weightlifter Laurel Hubbard’s gold medal-winning
performance at the Pacific Games continues to reverberate long after
the event, with a New Zealand women’s group demanding sports
authorities put a stop to “unfair” competition."

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The old Communist joke, &quot;We pretend to work and they pretend to pay us&quot; can be replaced by the new capitalist joke, &quot;We pretend to produce profits and they pretend to regulate us&quot;</p>&mdash; Marshall Auerback (@Mauerback) <a href="https://twitter.com/Mauerback/status/1156187714917732353?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 30, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Today, the U.S. Department of Energy announced $50 million for new
and innovative research of technologies for trucks, off-road vehicles,
and the fuels that power them.  Funded through the U.S. Department of
Energy’s (DOE’s) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
(EERE), these selections highlight the DOE’s priorities in gaseous
fuels research, including natural gas, biopower, and hydrogen"

[Link](https://www.energy.gov/articles/department-energy-announces-50-million-commercial-truck-road-vehicle-and-gaseous-fuels-0)

---

"I don't know karate, but I know ka-raze" 

-- James Brown

---

Veg / Fruit drier. Fantastic. Dry anything, ground, food-on-the-go.

[Link](https://www.banggood.com/Food-Dehydrator-Machine-Electric-Multi-Tier-Preserver-MeatFruitBeefVegetable-Dryer-p-1465100.html)

The site is called "banggood". Hah.

---

Asimov's *The Naked Sun* is prescient of the current times of
hemmed-in, live-in-a-zoo style lives modern people are being herded
into today. Read it, and see how u feel at the end when the detective
"gets out".

*Caves of Steel* is also good for context.

--- 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hydrogen could help decarbonise the global economy <a href="https://t.co/8EjkFiEsow">https://t.co/8EjkFiEsow</a></p>&mdash; Financial Times (@FinancialTimes) <a href="https://twitter.com/FinancialTimes/status/1156086295187337217?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 30, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

“Nuclear energy is never profitable”, new study slams nuclear power business case

[Link](https://reneweconomy.com.au/nuclear-energy-is-never-profitable-new-study-slams-nuclear-power-business-case-49596/)

---

This is a massive project. All UK heating will be H2-ready when it completes. 

"Engineers publish £22bn blueprint for UK to take global lead on hydrogen heating"

[Link](https://www.thechemicalengineer.com/news/engineers-publish-22bn-blueprint-for-uk-to-take-global-lead-on-hydrogen-heating)


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Greed is the religion of the billionaire class. And a nation based on greed will not survive morally, economically or politically.<br><br>That is why we fight to take power back from the billionaires and put it in the hands of the people, where it belongs.</p>&mdash; Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) <a href="https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1155920517301448705?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Congratulations to CHBC Members @GM @nelhydrogen @nikolamotor for
successfully receiving @ENERGY funding for #hydrogen-related research
in heavy-duty applications. Well done!

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/CAHydrogen/status/1155932964712136704)

---

Millenials like Seinfeld? I guess the non-snowflaky ones. Here is ep
*The Wizard*;

"The gang can’t figure out if Elaine’s new boyfriend is part
black. Determined to figure out his ethnicity, Elaine asks several
inadvertent questions about his heritage. After hearing hip-hop music
blaring from his apartment and noticing his collection of African
masks, Elaine is confident of his blackness. She even calls the black
waitress “sister” and says, “It’s okay, my boyfriend is black,” at
which point he arrives and tells her he is in fact white and assumed
she was Hispanic because her last name is Benes. She says she is not,
and they conclude, “So we’re just a couple of white people?”

There are posts out there describing this ep as racist BTW.

Race-blindness is obvs better. But if a race issue is on your mind,
why not talk abt it?

---

Good news.

"@PierreStock

Our latest paper on network compression is available! We manage to get
a 76.1% top-1 ResNet-50 that fits in 5 MB and also compress a Mask
R-CNN within 6 MB."

---

Comedy show idea: mad dogging contest btw J. Malkovich and
M. Ironside, two actors with the best psycho stare. Whoever laughs
first, loses.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Since 2017, perhaps even since the 2014 Scottish indyref, there is a strong argument that it is in the EU&#39;s strategic interests for an increasingly unstable UK to be parked outside full membership so that instability overwhelming the British state does not affect EU governance</p>&mdash; Alexander Clarkson (@APHClarkson) <a href="https://twitter.com/APHClarkson/status/1155778792956317697?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Northern Ireland needs to rejoin Ireland. 

Scotland should declare independence.

Noone sane should sit around and wait for the after-effects of an
English Brexit. They wanted good-ol England back, they should have it.

\#brexit

---

If war breaks out btw Iran and South Korea I will (briefly) LMAO.

"@Global_Mil_Info

Countries that have or will send naval ships to the Strait of Hormuz. 

 - United Kingdom 

 - United States

 - South Korea

 - India"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Panasonic has been losing money at the giga factory for years. It is all a bad joke.</p>&mdash; james kaff (@kaffjamesnewtow) <a href="https://twitter.com/kaffjamesnewtow/status/1155895135521116160?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@kaffjamesnewtow

Could A Hydrogen Society Change The Planet? Yes — Here’s Why"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/kaffjamesnewtow/status/1155871593207345153)

---

I can't wait for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics; they say it will be a major showcase for H2 use. 

Will there be hydrogen robots? :) [Domo Arigato ♫♫ Mr. Roboto ♫♫](https://youtu.be/uc6f_2nPSX8?t=56)

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This time next year the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games will be underway, and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government is hoping to leave a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> society as its legacy.<br><br>Toyota has unveiled the wide range of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> vehicles it will provide. <a href="https://t.co/rieeyi2GNS">https://t.co/rieeyi2GNS</a></p>&mdash; Joanna Sampson (@JoSamps92) <a href="https://twitter.com/JoSamps92/status/1155811800203563008?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I hope Dem strategists are reading Tooze well; the bailouts after 2008
created a rift between corp Reps and rank-and-file Reps; TARP passed
thanks to Dems in Congress, Reps sat it out. For a Republican admin!
McCain could not reach the rank-and-file, years later Trump did. But
Trump kowtowed to corporate power too, so the rift exists. The 2020
Dem nominee can hit that.

---

The centrist delusion - [Link](https://youtu.be/kFvm3qL7HG8?t=399) \#timblack

---

Dollar heg screws EM; when an economy slows, EM CB gets caught between
rock and a hard place. They need to lower rates bcz econ slows, but
they are afraid to bcz of the interest rate differentials dollars
might leave, and when $ leave its price rel to local curr rises, ppl
in dollar debt are in trouble.

---
Interdependence is not a good thing; US bloddy Central Bank watching
out for China, EM for its interest rate changes? Really badly designed
system. Petrodollar, dollar dom should end, we need bancor, where each
country has its own monetary policy, trade deficits are balanced
through bancor.

---

Hip-hop is very American. If u dont see that, wipe off your eyeglasses. 

"But.. but.. what about hip-hop? "

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">LMFAOOO “nice Ron” 😭😭 <a href="https://t.co/rq1uodD5Iz">pic.twitter.com/rq1uodD5Iz</a></p>&mdash; ϟ Chris Wolfe (@_chriswolfe) <a href="https://twitter.com/_chriswolfe/status/1155322591843762176?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

When watching *Pulp Fiction* I did not know who wrote the
screenplay. But there is one part when Jules says "Well I'm a mushroom
cloud laying motherfucker, motherfucker". I thought, I bet the author
was writing freely, the sentence sorta turned out that way, two mo-fos
fell next to eachother. But grammatically it is correct so he kept
it. That's when I knew a white guy wrote it. Because only a white guy
would be anal enough to worry abt the grammar of smack, do what he
did, and think it funny (which it was, of course).

---

Good teaching there (transistors)

[Video](https://youtu.be/IcrBqCFLHIY?t=57)

---

"@jim_rutt

Cory Doctorow: '20 years ago if you had a CCTV watching you while you ate your dinner, it was because you were in a supermax prison, and today it’s because you’ve got Apple Home or Google Home or Alexa in your kitchen.'" 

---

F--in von Neumann. He had a proof in his book, the Impossibility
Theorem, which "showed" there could be no other explanation other than
Copenhagen QM. Delayed the development of PWT for decades. But the
proof was wrong (found by a German mathematician lady, Grete Hermann).

[Link](https://www.jimruttshow.com/lee-smolin), time ref=26:00, Interview with
Lee Smolin

LS says if he had to choose btw time and space, he'd say time is more
real than space.

Entanglement is more prominent than space. It is very likely space is
an illusion.

---


"@AWeigmannn

Mazda and Toyota eyeing collaboration on radical new 6-cylinder engine"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/AWeigmannn/status/1155548710568419335)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Pochari Hydrogen&#39;s one and only VED helicopter<a href="https://t.co/33WJJ7uLsr">https://t.co/33WJJ7uLsr</a> <a href="https://t.co/mqELTqCxVd">pic.twitter.com/mqELTqCxVd</a></p>&mdash; Christophe Pochari (@CPochari) <a href="https://twitter.com/CPochari/status/1155604289793843200?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Here is a sentence I never thought I would hear.

"
@XRBerlin

This is an emergency!

Siberia is on fire!"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/XRBerlin/status/1155436610974048256)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">:) RT <a href="https://twitter.com/MSDNCNews?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@MSDNCNews</a>: BREAKING:<br><br>Sources confirm multiple women have come forward accusing Bernie Sanders of aggressively providing them with healthcare. <a href="https://t.co/unSU7PFs9x">pic.twitter.com/unSU7PFs9x</a></p>&mdash; John Cusack (@johncusack) <a href="https://twitter.com/johncusack/status/1155110958798462976?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 27, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;Global elites have a full-on meltdown every time the UK opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn suggests some kind of “people’s QE” or nationalising a couple of utility companies. Yet when <a href="https://twitter.com/blackrock?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@blackrock</a> says the ECB should buy equities no one blinks.” <a href="https://twitter.com/MerrynSW?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@MerrynSW</a><a href="https://t.co/WR8ZHiqTNX">https://t.co/WR8ZHiqTNX</a> <a href="https://t.co/I1qmmY1s95">pic.twitter.com/I1qmmY1s95</a></p>&mdash; Adam Tooze (@adam_tooze) <a href="https://twitter.com/adam_tooze/status/1155538410507001857?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

NK missile test is a little slap on Trump; he formed a personal
relationship, but NK has prios too, there are still sanctions, and now
joint exerc is back. No reason 4 him to go e-z, espc if he can squeeze
T a little b4 election time.

---

Trump could play that scene instead of Nicholson

[Video](https://youtu.be/pbI6qTih2TI?t=72)

---

I heard a libertard goldcuck the other day saying "but deflation is a
good thing! prices go down!". Frickin moron. You'll see how good thing
it is when ppl simply sit on their money, delaying purchases and the
entire economy grinds to a halt.

Libertards are farm-dwelling folk in mind, if not in actuality. They
like to have their "land" with its "borders", they'll bury their gold
in there, whose value should not go down... wife and lots of kids,
maybe with a goat on the side, and they'll live happily
everafter... They don't care what happens outside. This is the dream
for these muppets.

"Blyth: Gold is deflationary."

[Video](https://youtu.be/tJoe_daP0DE?t=948)

---



<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Laser paint and rust removal tool!<br>Watch the full video here <a href="https://t.co/br9uuC2beo">https://t.co/br9uuC2beo</a> <a href="https://t.co/AzgPtJeq7R">pic.twitter.com/AzgPtJeq7R</a></p>&mdash; World of Engineering (@engineers_feed) <a href="https://twitter.com/engineers_feed/status/1155506283711270912?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Mainstream scifi has a thing for turning AI into irreplacable "people"; Trek had virtual doctor being sent somewhere, than he would not exist at the source. He was gone, like a person.  

This is software.. It can exist in two places.

Same thing in *Another Life*, virtual assis code wants to go into
another program, everyone is like "oh no, what if we lose you?"

Lose? Do you have backups?

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">House Dems, including MANY OF THE PROGRESSIVE DEMS, voted overwhelmingly to condemn boycotting Israel while Israel went on a demolition spree destroying Palestinian homes. You should all be ashamed of yourselves. Absolutely pathetic tools!!!</p>&mdash; Rania Khalek (@RaniaKhalek) <a href="https://twitter.com/RaniaKhalek/status/1153992846803968002?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 24, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

*Another Life* show has ppl skilled in diff areas in cryo sleep in the
ship. Captains, biologists, mechanics all there and with
backups. They r all canned in there like canned food. Need a
mechanic, wake one up.

---

Gaaetz looks like Robin from that Batman mov with the nipple
suit. That actor is in some fascist show now afaik, CIS, NCIS..?.

---

Flying soldier on hoverboard.. imagine the protests you can put down with that.

[Vid](https://youtu.be/FjnV5FIzQzo)

Of course it runs on gas, not on batteries like with bitch BEVs.

[Link](https://zapata.com/air-products/flyboardair)

"More efficient in turning chemical energy into thrust."

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This is a black and white photograph. Only the lines have colour.<br><br>What you “see” is what your 🧠 predicts the reality to be, given the imperfect information it gets. <a href="https://t.co/gwttlcC2Zw">pic.twitter.com/gwttlcC2Zw</a></p>&mdash; Lionel Page (@page_eco) <a href="https://twitter.com/page_eco/status/1155077311399489536?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 27, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Nixon had some game.. too bad all that other stuff that came at the
end. He quit the gold standard like that - snap. Nearly did UBI, moon
landing was in his time.. where are such gutsy moves now? World / US
needs M4A, UBI, bancor, but everybody's looking at eachother, confused
as if in a Woody Allen movie.

---

Haha..! Nixon had Cheney and Rummy run tests, do research on UBI

[Link](https://youtu.be/lPT8-nuCz-A?t=34)

---

Nice vid on Boris' gg father

[Vid](https://youtu.be/jcK63Zqry5Q)

He was against oppressive nats which is fine. But he also came out
against the nat liberation move later (against foreign occup, post
WW1), they were loosely connected with 1st group of nats... Tough
stance. He was lynched btw. Ugly; and fitting for a peasant empire
culture.

---

Wut? Even H2 fuel? That cant be right. If true, the deal needs some additions.

Warren is for ethanol, no?

[Link](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-biofuels/ethanol-vs-environment-democratic-hopefuls-campaign-on-clashing-agendas-idUSKCN1UL26D)

"Green New Deal, which calls for the end of all fuel-powered cars –
and, thus, the end of the domestic ethanol industry"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="ru" dir="ltr">Смотрите, какое противостояние!<a href="https://t.co/vHfO6NY3Ky">https://t.co/vHfO6NY3Ky</a> <a href="https://t.co/cuYlFtcpp4">pic.twitter.com/cuYlFtcpp4</a></p>&mdash; Илья Варламов (@varlamov) <a href="https://twitter.com/varlamov/status/1155111034681724930?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 27, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Sad

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The catastrophe happened due to climate change and lack of food, and has never been this big, said three researchers from the Norwegian Polar Institute. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/WeDontHaveTime?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#WeDontHaveTime</a> <a href="https://t.co/AuuGQ9ZYBM">https://t.co/AuuGQ9ZYBM</a></p>&mdash; We Don&#39;t Have Time (@WeDontHaveTime0) <a href="https://twitter.com/WeDontHaveTime0/status/1155218536341671942?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 27, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

[facepalm]

"@dmonett

A 'worrying analysis':

18 [#deeplearning] algorithms ... presented at top-level research
conferences ... Only 7 of them could be reproduced w/ reasonable
effort ... 6 of them can often be outperformed w/ comparably simple
heuristic methods"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/dmonett/status/1154876433564655616)

---

*Another Life* critics seem to be piling on the "it is like this, like
that other mov" angle. I dont care AL is like something else. How
many different ways can u have aliens arrive to Earth anyway? Take
the show on its own merits. Is it enjoyable if this was one one of
the few scifi shows u had seen?

---

"The Renewable Energy Extension Act of 2019 would provide a 5-year
extension of the Investment Tax Credit (ITC) and residential renewable
energy tax credit for solar, delaying the incremental phase out that
Congress passed in 2015. In addition to solar, the bill extends the
ITC for other clean energy technologies set to phase out, such as
fiber-optic solar, fuel cells, small wind, microturbines, combined
heat and power, and geothermal heat pumps

Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Cory
Booker (D-N.J.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Chris
Van Hollen (D-Md.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Dianne Feinstein
(D-Calif.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Kirsten
Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), Kamala D. Harris
(D-Calif.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) joined
Cortez Masto in introducing this legislation".

[Link](https://www.cortezmasto.senate.gov/news/press-releases/cortez-masto-introduces-renewable-energy-extension-act)

---

Rare Earth metals aren't actually rare, US has them too. But their
production were so environmentally toxic that their mining were, ahem,
"outsourced" to China.

---

"@BallardPwr

CO2 regulations will only get stricter—so the \#trucking industry is
taking a serious look at \#fuelcell"

---

"@adam_tooze

The German Bundeswehr in 1990 was a military force to be reckoned with. Today it has negligible deployable strength, despite continuing to spend billions of euros". 

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/adam_tooze/status/1155160921813192705)

---

*Another Life* - looking good so far.

---

A Russkie coworker told me once the Russkie spoken in movies is really bad.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Temp records have been shattered in Germany and Paris (108.7F) and all across Europe. This heatwave is dangerous, and a sobering reminder that we urgently need policies to drastically slash planet-warming emissions. This cannot become the new normal. <a href="https://t.co/xtxRce1aW8">https://t.co/xtxRce1aW8</a></p>&mdash; Al Gore (@algore) <a href="https://twitter.com/algore/status/1154494231467220998?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

No US is [not an empire](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2015/01/not-empire.html) by its foundation.

But the petrodollar hegemony is certainly pushing it that way, which
creates tension.

--- 

US founders were not white supremacists. Jefferson and GW did hold
slaves, but were for eventual equality. Slaveholders in the first
Congress were minority. New Englanders like John Adams (the second
President) abhorred it. They wanted to abolish it outright but saw it
would cause problems with the South. So they tabled the issue for 80
years. When the issue came back the Civil War ensued.

---

If we can leave a tombstone behind for humanity somehow I think it
should read "Over-commercialization Killed Us".

---

"[Commenting on Beyond Meat] interesting stats , 60% of beef market is low quality fast food / pet food. 50% of earths land is assigned to grazing . 18% of the co2 comes from cows . 80% of the oat and corn crops is fed to cows. It's still a silly valuation but one of these  impairs will make cows obsolete"

[Link](https://twitter.com/ctindale/status/1154562055313039360)

---

