# Tweets - Week 49

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">What the establishment used to say about our ideas:<br><br>Raising the minimum wage to a living wage‚Äîtoo radical.<br>Guaranteeing health care to all‚Äîtoo radical.<br>Aggressively combating climate change‚Äîtoo radical.<br>Not having a super PAC‚Äîtoo radical.<br><br>None of these are &quot;radical&quot; anymore.</p>&mdash; Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) <a href="https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1202285454160257026?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Scientists have just announced the first discoveries from <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ParkerSolarProbe?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ParkerSolarProbe</a>‚Äôs daring mission to the Sun. What they‚Äôve learned has changed our understanding of the way the Sun releases material and particles, influencing Earth and the entire solar system: <a href="https://t.co/3WFfZStojM">https://t.co/3WFfZStojM</a> <a href="https://t.co/Q3BZAV7lrT">pic.twitter.com/Q3BZAV7lrT</a></p>&mdash; NASA Sun &amp; Space (@NASASun) <a href="https://twitter.com/NASASun/status/1202288533224009729?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Groupe Michelin has formed a joint venture with Faurecia to develop
and market hydrogen fuel cell systems for light vehicles and
commercial trucks"

[Link](https://www.moderntiredealer.com/news/736571/michelin-faurecia-form-hydrogen-fuel-cell-jv)

---

@SkyeCity_

Number of people declared bankrupt due to medical bills each year:

Canada - 0

France - 0

The Netherlands - 0

Switzerland - 0

Japan - 0

Germany - 0

The US - 800,000

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">But which circle?</p>&mdash; Joshua Ulrich (@joshua_ulrich) <a href="https://twitter.com/joshua_ulrich/status/1202260076800749568?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

üëç

"China sanctions: US House passes bill over treatment of Uighurs"

---

"@JConafay

'Analysis tells you what you think of your design, building hardware
tells you what the universe thinks about it.'"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">What rubbish: &quot;The EU has stood squarely against ‚Äúscience, innovation and technology‚Äù for decades&quot; üôÑ<br><br>Pure &quot;rah rah British empire&quot; propaganda from a clueless Tory with no science background.<br><br>FYI, the EU&#39;s Horizon Europe programme will have a budget of ‚Ç¨94 billion over 7 yrs. <a href="https://t.co/YNbuu9HxxI">https://t.co/YNbuu9HxxI</a></p>&mdash; Mark McCaughrean (@markmccaughrean) <a href="https://twitter.com/markmccaughrean/status/1195664521165254656?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 16, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Oh yeah? Got a penchant for pa-kojj? Ok.

That's the French pronounciation for 'package' BTW üòÜüòÜ Just kidding..

---

Bring It On - 77 El Deora \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/Bk1WXOpW7nw)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We have received a purchase order for two additional hydrogen fueling stations in Korea. Check out the press release for more info: <a href="https://t.co/ZwhHw4nhjh">https://t.co/ZwhHw4nhjh</a> <a href="https://t.co/FXQShKWpGe">pic.twitter.com/FXQShKWpGe</a></p>&mdash; Nel Hydrogen (@nelhydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/nelhydrogen/status/1202113019821645824?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 4, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

M. Douglas on Gekko \#wallstreet 

[Link](https://youtu.be/bbfMmyWotOI?t=541)

---

Crazy. Some Gordon Gekko level shit.

<iframe width="320" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UatnTSwEUoc?start=315" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Stoller, *Goliath*

"In 2001, one of the most important business historians of the
twentieth century, Alfred Chandler, would note that this suit led to
IBM‚Äôs decision to unbundle its software, and that decision ‚Äúbecame and
remained central to the evolution of the computer industry worldwide.‚Äù
The suit, as Ed Black of the Computer and Communications Industry
Association put it in 1997, also ‚Äúsignaled to both venture capitalists
and key, talented individuals that they could, in fact, start new
firms and not be stifled by Big Blue.‚Äù ...

The successes of the suit did not register among the new economists
and antitrust lawyers trained in the Chicago School framework. They
could no longer tell the difference between healthy markets and big
companies, and chalked up the competition in the technology industry
to nature, rather than antitrust policy. A mythos emerged around
Silicon Valley, that a set of institutions built on democratic
protection of the engineer and scientist from the monopolist was
instead born from antigovernment garage tinkerers"

---

No need for an audiobook with its own sound file. @Voice Aloud Reader
app can read a book, and voice it, works great with epub, mobi
formats. I have it read with a Brit accent works great.

---

"Being in the moment" is okay as a temporary coping mechanism, but the
larger issue is the modern structures being unsuitable for our
needs. If the entire structure is pushing one into a frantic future
preperation, there is only so much "being in the moment" u can do.

---

Asians 6% of US ..? Not all of that is Oriental; There are a lot of
ppl with Indian origin.. Plus they r not a single block. A "Filipino"
couldn't care less about what a "Korean", or "Japanese" might think (I
put quotes bcz in US most would of them are probably already American)

---

"The New Zealand company behind a landmark trial of a four-day working
week has declared it a success and will be adopting the new schedule
full time"

[Link](https://theguardian.com/world/2018/oct/02/no-downside-new-zealand-firm-adopts-four-day-week-after-successful-trial)

---

Centrist is so confused: "but why are Reps blocking everything we
do?". BECAUSE YOU ARE TRYING TO BE LIKE THEM you buffoon. No political
party will sit idly by watching you supplant them. You think they are
morons? (He doesn't, so he himself is a moron).

So trying to find that "common ground" triggers the exact opposite outcome.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Plug Power Selected by ENGIE to Deliver Refueling System for World‚Äôs Largest <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a>-Powered Mine Truck-<a href="https://twitter.com/PlugPowerInc?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@PlugPowerInc</a> to provide a custom refueling system for truck, which is set to begin operation next year-<a href="https://t.co/aTPTZQltmI">https://t.co/aTPTZQltmI</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemissions?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemissions</a> <a href="https://t.co/Lmt9PDZhYl">pic.twitter.com/Lmt9PDZhYl</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1201860403044724736?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 3, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Exactly. What I've been saying 4ever - showing steps the inventors
went through for their discoveries is essential for teaching,
especially to prospective researchers.

"Reacting to criticism concerning the lack of motivation in his
writings, Gauss remarked that architects of great cathedrals do not
obscure the beauty of their work by leaving the scaffolding in place
after the construction has been completed. His philosophy epitomized
the formal presentation and teaching of mathematics throughout the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries, and it is still commonly found in
mid-to-upper-level mathematics textbooks. The inherent efficiency and
natural beauty of mathematics are compromised by straying too far from
Gauss‚Äôs viewpoint. But, as with most things in life, appreciation is
generally preceded by some understanding seasoned with a bit of
maturity, and in mathematics this comes from seeing some of the
scaffolding" -- Meyer, *Matrix Analysis and Applied Linear Algebra*

---

<img width="450" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EKzbiaPXYAA_nua.jpg:large"/>

---

Ouch \#hamilton \#chapoTrapHouse

[Link](https://youtu.be/gzdc0mFc3CQ)

---

Spark Plug Rain - Profane Saints \#music

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7lxM3YuZ9eQ)

---

PMI [flat](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/05/stats.html#pmi). Not good. 

---

"@w_terrence

FACEBOOK IS THREATENING TO TAKE MY PAGE DOWN!

THIS IS NOT FAIR AT ALL!

So supporting President Trump is considered inauthentic behavior?"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/w_terrence/status/1201635398813986816)

---

They are our saviours. They can do whatever they want.

"As U.S. corporate jet use approaches pre-financial crisis levels and
chief executives take an increasing number of personal trips on the
company tab, many investors are being kept in the dark about the true
cost of the perk"

[Link](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-taxes-jets-insight/off-the-radar-u-s-ceos-jet-perks-add-millions-to-corporate-tax-bills-idUSKBN1Y6131)

---

Imagine the kind of world where W, a Republican, felt comfortable
channeling Bill Clinton. These people turned US into a one-party
state. No wonder they get along great with China!

---

Anyway.. "New Dems" were so uncomfortable in their own skin, more
losses than wins were probably baked in. Same offering on econ issues,
leaves you all this trivial, secondary stuff becoming hot topics of
contention where Reps have the advantage.

---

BC definitely set the tone for the post Berlin Wall world - and not
for the better. Dubya was 100% in Clinton-mold - that's how he
presented himself (in an underhanded kind of way). His personality,
2000 positioning basically boiled down to "I'll give you Clinton, and
there'll be less d#$k sucking in the Oval Office". Right? "Son of a
President you see, I won't be as crass". That was the sales
pitch. Southerner, check.  Governor, check. About same age,
check. With all that he managed to out-Clinton Gore, *another
Southerner*, who thanks the worst campaign manager hired in decades,
failed to show loyalty to the man who hired him, and lost the election
during good times!

---

I remember a Clinton speech after 9/11 talking about data collection,
by "(paraphrasing) making use of the kind of data the credit card
companies already collect on us everyday". "Watch for patterns in the
data, normal behaviour fine, outside the normal, up to no good". Well,
when the primo fucko is saying all this stuff, why not go ahead and
built the biggest spying network known to mankind? Which is what they
did.

And remember the Clipper chip?

---

TV show *Lost* story telling was a bloody mess, but it also hit a
nerve - we basically saw for five seasons people living in
forager-like conditions - our hidden ideal. The one time they left the
island, they were miserable, and they all had to go back. The modern
life sucked.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Great to see fuel cells being used as emergency back up power for telephone towers in Germany <a href="https://t.co/MGhCyUFzpd">https://t.co/MGhCyUFzpd</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemission</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/backuppower?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#backuppower</a></p>&mdash; Intelligent Energy (@intellenergy) <a href="https://twitter.com/intellenergy/status/1201537916058718208?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 2, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Yes, there is.

"There is no silver bullet in energy for combating climate change"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">New study looks to biological enzymes as source of hydrogen fuel-University of Illinois &amp; the University of California, Davis Researchers has chemists one step closer to recreating nature‚Äôs most efficient machinery for generating <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a>-<a href="https://t.co/RVqjV4ESF8">https://t.co/RVqjV4ESF8</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://t.co/X5AitRuGxH">pic.twitter.com/X5AitRuGxH</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1201488735520645121?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 2, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Can plentiful fish create an agro-like environment (like harvesting,
you can store, storage creates centralized ownership, hierarchy)?

Actually fishing, even during agro would create an foraging-like
environment - go out to nature, get stuff, it's always there, you
don't have to 'cultivate' it. See Ian Morris.

There are ways of handling the storage issue wout creating undue
social structure. Plus storage doesn't create an exclusive food
source, ppl can still go out and fish. American Indians hunted bisons,
and stored excess food in the form of pemmican, and Indians remained
an hunter-gatherer society.

---

Like I said, religion at its root is anti-establishment, against
landed, mafia interests.

Donner also mentions archeologists can't find any traces for a "conquest".

"[T]he Prophet Muhammad he encountered a lot of opposition in his home
community in Mecca, for one thing the meccans as many pagan societies
tend to be engaged in a lot of sort of ancestor worship they tended to
glorify their ancestors [and M said don't listen to them]" - *How Islam Began*, Fred Donner

[Link](https://youtu.be/5RFK5u5lkhA?t=640)

---

Debt jubilee... Michael Hudson saz that constantly

"But in answer to your question, the end game is-- and the end game
will be massively reflationary, will be the global debt jubilee.  The
global debt jubilee [as in] the monetary and fiscal authorities
working together to print money.  And that'll come from the G4 central
banks-- the Fed, the ECB, the BOE, and the BOJ.  And this is just
right out of the Ben Bernanke-- what was Ben Bernanke's moniker?  Ben
Bernanke, before November 2002, was not called Helicopter Ben [as in
dropping money out of helicopters].  But he was called Helicopter Ben
after November 2002 because the famous 'What If' speech, "what if we
got caught in this deflationary trap of the zero bond in interest
rates?".  ...  But the Fed stopped short of the big bomb.  And the big
bomb is debt monetization.  And so you're asking me what is it that's
going to happen.  We're going to eliminate, we're going to have a
fire, a bond fire [nice, rhimes with bonfire], OK, and we're going to
eliminate a lot of this debt through the transaction.  ... so this is
exactly what's going to happen at the end game, is the elimination of
the biggest constraint"

[Link](https://youtu.be/5LhWFGtD26o?t=929)

---

I wonder if it can be done - completely isolating China behind
something like Soviet Iron Curtain.. or hell, the Great Wall..

These ppl are already used to living in enclosed spaces, not
exploring, just killing eachother in huge numbers.

---

"@Jkylebass

Study says Chinese government lies to the world about its murderous
'involuntary' organ 'donors'. 'The conclusion shows that very many
people have died indescribably hideous deaths..' Why even engage with
a regime this evil?! We need to decouple"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/Jkylebass/status/1195286210467553280)

---

\#enigma \#tbtv

[Link](https://youtu.be/OmjIw2as4SI?t=371)

---

"A last way to calculate the size of the Free world is to look at the labor
expended there. For instance, in 2008 Ohloh, a company that tracks the
open source industry, listed 201,453 people currently working on a
whopping 146,970 projects. That‚Äôs approximately the size of the GM
workforce, which is a lot of people working for free, even if not full-time.
Imagine if they were producing automobiles!" -- C. Anderson, *Free*

---

Hah - Moore's Law is actually Mead's Law

"As it happens, Gordon Moore did not coin the law named after him. The
man who did, Caltech professor Carver Mead" - C. Anderson, *Free*

---

For math opt you would model the problem by hand (OMG!), construct an
objective func, and find the optimal vals.

He also said "ML is very good at predicting the past". Hehe

"ML [makes] use of the past, while decision making, mathematical
optimization [makes] use of the future" -- Lubecke

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/mluebbecke/status/1102923327105105920)

---

OR = Operations Research. Huge area - probably started with Dantzig,
when he calculated optimal plane cargo loads for the famous Berlin
Airlift.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Why do so many decision makers assume AI / ML is the best approach when OR might be?</p>&mdash; Les Servi (@lds123) <a href="https://twitter.com/lds123/status/1199296260378972160?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 26, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

New method for H2 generation from natgas

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Hydrogen from Natural Gas Without CO2 Emissions--Methane is separated into gaseous <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> and solid carbon that is a valuable material for various industry branches and can also be stored safely--<a href="https://t.co/hK1xEeLAnz">https://t.co/hK1xEeLAnz</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemission?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemission</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SOLAR?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#SOLAR</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://t.co/JvWZCUTK9w">pic.twitter.com/JvWZCUTK9w</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1201171830624653313?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 1, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

100-200 meters!

"[Qualcomm] finds that mmWave networks will offer 96% of the coverage
of the 4G networks if the 5G small cells are deployed at a range of
around 100 meters to 200 meters apart, said Peter Carson, senior
director of product marketing .."

[Link](https://www.lightreading.com/mobile/5g/5g-the-density-question-/a/d-id/740634)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Flaring/venting of natural gas in Permian Basin Texas &amp; New Mexico reached new all-time high in third quarter 2019 averaging more than 750 million cubic feet per day according to preliminary analysis by Rystad Energy. EPA/Interior under Trump have cut rules limiting the practice <a href="https://t.co/4iPNWf9Ddt">pic.twitter.com/4iPNWf9Ddt</a></p>&mdash; Eric Lipton (@EricLiptonNYT) <a href="https://twitter.com/EricLiptonNYT/status/1191725086258221057?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Higher freq means more, denser antenna placements. But higher freq
could also fry ur effin brain \#5G

---

Why do they always use the "remote surgery" example while explaining
5G? Cant u find anything more commonplace?

Or maybe 5G isnt really all that's cracked up to be, and they r having
a hard time to shine the turd.

Wout proper insurance the patient would die anyway, before that spiffy
robotic arm can do any good.

Reminder: Insurance is a 300 year old invention.

---

"@william_sw

Correct me if I m wrong but all electrolyser companies are either
European or owned by European companies. Nel, ITM/Linde,
AirLiquide/Hydrogenics, Siemens. Europe leads green #hydrogen"

---

London Bridge attacker has weird links. Looks like another one of
those "not-so-smart bombs" cons deployed elsewhere, but gone rouge.

---

```python
import quandl
df = quandl.get("RATEINF/INFLATION_USA-Inflation-YOY-USA", 
                returns="pandas",authtoken=open(".quandl").read())
dfi = df[(df.index > '2007-01-01')]

import pandas as pd, datetime
from pandas_datareader import data

today = datetime.datetime.now()
start=datetime.datetime(2007, 1, 1)
end=datetime.datetime(today.year, today.month, today.day)
cols = ['DGS10']
dft = data.DataReader(cols, 'fred', start, end)

dfi['t'] = dft
dfi.columns = ['Inf','10YR']
dfi = dfi.dropna()
dfi.plot()
plt.savefig('inf10yr.png')
```

<img width="400" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EKwjYGeWkAAX6cC?format=png&name=small"/>

---

YoY inflation 1.76, T10YR at 1.72.

"Aaww but we are in debt yields gonna blow!" Not happening (yet). The
biggest risk for bonds is inflation risk (principal, coupons are paid,
guaranteed, but if money is worth less, problem). HOWEVER if USD is
dropped as world's reserve curr, massive debt monetization, then there
might be inflation - but this event is hard to predict. Might as well
make some $ until it happens. 

---

"@ConsensusExiled

Liberal centrism, an amorphous mass of ideologies enslaved by markets,
profits and neoliberal capitalism, is useful only to delay the descent
to bare fascism‚Ää‚Äî‚Ääa preferred outcome to socialism for the materially
privileged."

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/ConsensusExiled/status/1199751436499709953)

---

I hear you, but it is still a useful gauge. It measures most
transactions after all. So if it is accelerating, it might not mean
all is well, but if it is decelerating, then u can be sure things are
very bad.

"GDP is old-fashioned, useless ..."

---

"@peterdaou

DEFEND THE STATUS QUO.

DEFEND THE ESTABLISHMENT.

If it makes you feel good.

I won't.

I can't.

I refuse to keep doing the same thing and expecting a different result.

Time for a political revolution"

---

Tetris in Emacs on Termux on a Samsung. I've reached Walhalla.

<img width="200" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EKokWnSXkAAKZcV?format=jpg&name=medium"/>

---

What happens once the last Bitcoin is mined? What incentive will
miners have to have their servers up to process transactions?
Transaction fees could be one, but by then off-chain solutions like
Lightning would be propagating txns through completely different
network structure, not through miners, than not much txn $$ would be
coming their way.

It will be weird. The whole proof-of-work and limited \# of coins
thing is odd (and deflationary, like gold). 

Finney was not a great systems designer. He knew crypto, but I don't
think he was great on scale, computing horse power etc. Time for
change - clean slate.

---

Hal Finney diagnosed with ALS in 2009. Satoshi posted last message on
Bitcointalk forum Dec 2010. So Finney (Satoshi) came to terms w
illness, tidied up work and pulled himself out of the community.

Satoshi would have come forward by now, if he could. He can't because
he is dead.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">German gas industry targets 5 GW of power-to-gas (electricity to H2) capacity in five years .. 40 GW by 2050. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energytwitter?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energytwitter</a> it is ok to say with confidence that Green Hydrogen is coming. Molecules bring value to deep decarbonization and engage incumbents <a href="https://t.co/EVM3LMEzm0">https://t.co/EVM3LMEzm0</a></p>&mdash; Garry Golden (@garrygolden) <a href="https://twitter.com/garrygolden/status/1200776744594223106?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 30, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Nano crypto looks good. Everyone has their own blockchain. No mining.

---

The UK's oddest [place names](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EKkJPt3WwAYEpoX?format=jpg&name=900x900).

---

True. [Related](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2017/08/the-nordic-theory-of-everything.html)

"Many progressive European societies have policies that replicate
hunter-gatherer parenting values by assuring community support for
parents via generous maternity and paternity leave, subsidized medical
and child care, and free education.

Parents in the United States and other societies less aligned with the
deeply human, communal values are struggling‚Äînot because they are bad
parents, but because their culture places wildly unrealistic demands
and expectations on them, abandoning them when they most need help"

\#civilizedToDeath

---

Is Trump a closet liberterian? Penchant for gold, check. Spending
worries (which he does nothing about, but great lip service),
check. Libertard friend (Thiel), check. Libertard pol supporter (Rand
Paul), check. Tea Party connection (Palin, Pence), check.

Note: Most ppl don't know Pence is a huge TP-head. He keeps saying "I
was Tea Party before there was a Tea Party"

---

Go help bankrupt another news outlet, you'll feel better.

"Peter Thiel Sued Over Landslide That Damaged Neighbor's Home"

---

Not a douche anymore üëç

This guy is a former Hillary advisor BTW. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">How messed up is our system, you ask?<br><br>NO TOLERANCE FOR:<br><br>Universal healthcare.<br>Dignity at work.<br>Affordable housing/education.<br>Clean environment. <br><br>UNLIMITED TOLERANCE FOR:<br><br>Bloated military budget.<br>Tax breaks for billionaires.<br>Flooding the country with guns.<br>Kidnapping children.</p>&mdash; Peter Daou (@peterdaou) <a href="https://twitter.com/peterdaou/status/1200409510214545414?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

üòÜüòÜüòÇüòÇ

"Many Boomers were thus quick to take offense [at the OK Boomer meme]
since taking offense is now a preapproved response to any set of
circumstances at any time. One Boomer even objected to the plain word
Boomer, calling it the 'N-word of ageism.' Once again, Boomers are
getting ahead of themselves"

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/11/obituary-ok-boomer/602656/?utm_source=feed)

---

Chimpanzee is not our ancestor. We did not descend from chimps, we
descended from something already looking like human, chimps evolved
from that as well.

[Link](https://youtu.be/RzWNh9ZpOCw?t=79) and [Link](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/12/evolution.html)

---

Profits are [down](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/05/stats.html#cpyoy) -0.8% YoY - [link](https://twitter.com/KeithMcCullough/status/1200394586008489984)

---

Stupidest thing I've ever heard... If Brits had US mentality on guns,
the attacker would be armed with AR-15, he'd not only kill more ppl
he'd [hold
off](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2016/06/ar-15-ii.html#capacity)
the entire police force with extreme firepower.

"@DavidWohl

Takeaway from #LondonBridge incident: If law-abiding
Londoners could carry firearms legally, it probably wouldn't have
happened"

---

I worked for a consulting firm who did a project for Enron. Our
project was similar so we asked to see their C++ code. Now whenever I
hear abt Enron remember that code. Indentation meh. Boilerplate level
ok. No visible shananigans, but of course they must have been
somewhere else.

---

"~70% retail still takes place offline"

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tr7ZSwCvy2M)

---

"@Keubiko

China EV sales imploding on back of subsidy cut.  down 45% YoY in Oct.
Government mulling over cutting the remaining subsidy - one of the
policy objectives is to cull the herd of hundreds of EV makers that
have sprung up.  Tesla is walking into a knife fight"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Netherlands <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HEAVENN?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HEAVENN</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> project receives ‚Ç¨20m grant from EU funding and ‚Ç¨70m of public and private co-funding through The Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Joint Undertaking (<a href="https://twitter.com/fch_ju?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@fch_ju</a> ) <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> <a href="https://t.co/czhXTP6K30">https://t.co/czhXTP6K30</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1200366955787694080?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@Cgnewday

Fossil fuels are completely unnecessary, the only ones that don‚Äôt
think so are the sociopathic 1%‚Äôers that own them and their
sociopathic lobby groups they fund"

---

"@jeremycorbyn

The billionaire owner of the Daily Mail, the Viscount Rothermere, has
bought @theipaper.

Two billionaire press barons now own half of the top 10 daily
newspapers.

Remember this when they attack Labour's plan to make the super-rich
pay their fair share"

---

Different..? Let's see üôÑ .. Limited number of people with British
origin on a huge landmass.

That's like, Australia! Which has free healthcare, and gun control.

What __is__ different about US is the way its politicians have been
the victim of corporate capture. The war between public and private
resulted with the public losing. Yes that particular war was probably
more intense in US bcz it is the seat of the empire, empire as in the
military-industrial complex Eisenhower warned about.

(Plus centrist middle meddling meager medians try so hard to become
like Republicans, this pushes Reps to extreme, making them intractable
on issues that could be solved easily)

"But US is a huge country, so the dynamics to survive on it made them
different, that's why they have to have guns, and healthcare cannot be
free"

---

From Navarro's book *Death by China*,

>[The] process begins when you or I walk into a store like Walmart and
buy a Chinese product, after which our dollars are shipped
overseas. At this point, to maintain the U.S. dollar‚Äôs fixed peg to
the yuan, China must promptly recycle our ‚ÄúWalmart dollars‚Äù back into
the United States by buying financial assets such as U.S. government
bonds, U.S. real estate, or U.S. companies; otherwise, upward
pressures would build on the yuan. ...
>
>Before the Chinese government can recycle any of our Walmart dollars,
it must gain control of those dollars from the Chinese exporters that
accumulated them. This requires a convoluted process known as
*sterilization*.
>
>To sterilize our Walmart dollars, the Chinese government forces its
exporters to buy Chinese government bonds denominated in
U.S. dollars. In return for surrendering their greenbacks, exporters
then receive about 4% interest on the sterilization bonds. The
Chinese government then turns around and reinvests the captured
sterilized greenbacks back into U.S. government bonds that pay less
than 2% interest. China thereby loses 2% or more in interest on every
dollar it sterilizes‚Äîand the losses run into the billions!
>
>Just why is the Chinese central bank willing to shoulder such huge
losses? It is because the Communist Party is far more interested in
creating jobs to maintain political stability

This creates distortion in the exchange rate.

Dollar reserves built up throughout the world to combat currency
attacks, act similarly.

Also selling debt can allow a country to recycle old debt with new
debt, allowing it to obtain dollars, covering up the real value of a
currency = distortion.

The old model is broken in many ways. We need a new system.

"Why aren't exchange rates adjusting themselves automatically
according to trade deficits?"


---


H2 comes from Brunei‚Äôs hydrogenation plant which converts LNG into
H2.

It is liquified and is transported, to be used in turbines in Japan
that generate electricity.

üëç Fossil converted into clean transportable energy at the source.

"@AWeigmannn

Brunei has begun exporting hydrogen, with the first shipment targeted
to reach Japan‚Äôs city of Kawasaki on December 15"

[Link](https://twitter.com/AWeigmannn/status/1200107736144453632)

---

H2 is spreading the way new, solid tech should - slow but surely, and
organically.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">More renewable hydrogen projects for industry are being announced each week. <a href="https://t.co/IENS6OdOxw">https://t.co/IENS6OdOxw</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/powertogas?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#powertogas</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a></p>&mdash; Keith Malone (@ANativeAngeleno) <a href="https://twitter.com/ANativeAngeleno/status/1200094519011815429?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Nissan Motor Co. is introducing a new, higher-tech production system
globally to try to boost efficiency as it looks to reverse a slide in
profitability.

The updated equipment and other technologies, which include increased
automation"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The so-called <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ShiaCrescent?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ShiaCrescent</a> has a big hole in it.The insular, atavistic &amp; cruel theocracy in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Tehran?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Tehran</a> &amp; its proxies in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Iraq?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Iraq</a> &amp; <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Lebanon?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Lebanon</a> are in denial of the tectonic changes under their feet.The symbolism of burning <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Iran?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Iran</a>&#39;s consulate in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Najaf?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Najaf</a> is immense <a href="https://t.co/RbaqAS2mJg">https://t.co/RbaqAS2mJg</a></p>&mdash; Hisham Melhem (@hisham_melhem) <a href="https://twitter.com/hisham_melhem/status/1199864597555163137?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Would ppl buy goods with their UBI from the companies in bad shape,
helping them stay afloat?". Maybe. And maybe not. Trusting ppl with
those dollars is still a better idea tho rather than coddling
overextended companies.

---

So maybe a special UBI that kicks in during downturns, it can be keyed
off a particular macro parameter, say GDP deceleration for two
consecutive quarters. 

---

"Government increasing spending during downturns" is a really, really
stupid idea - as in spending that'll help businesses to stay
afloat. They even had the left go along with this shit (bcz biz would
not fire workers if they were held afloat). Downturn is nature's way
of telling overextended businesses to trim down or die the fuck
off. If that process is artificially hampered, than we end up with
zombies, who cannot grow but can keep limpin around also thanks to low
rates, who would not hire more workers anyway, or increase wages.

During downturns help needs to go to people not to companies. People
might get laid off from overextended companies which is bad, so help
them directly, not to the companies.

---

Science is still in its dark ages. Most papers still do not share data
and code. Clearly journals are not beacons of progress, if they were,
they'd make it mandatory to get a Jupyter notebook, or at least
downloadable file and code along each paper they receive for review /
publication.

Gov is slippin, they should make it mandatory for data / code to be
shared as part of their grant process.

And that is only for starters - I have an idea to force all math to be
verifiable through an automatic theorem prover, but that is too crazy
for now. I'd settle for data and code.

---
