# Tweets - Week 30

Chicken Coupe Deville - Warm Beer \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/okqqgNcT-H4)

---


SB is a total 3W company; stores are geared for knowledge workers. 

---

I been to so many Sbucks stores in so many different countries that if
there was an award for this sort of thing, I am sure I'd win it. I
seek them out whereever I go too.. I could be in Philippenes Cebu City
and I'll find the SB there.

---

National Dem polling might be misleading, regional ones, since cands
probably put more energy there, could be more indicative. Iowa, New
Hamp, South Car, Cali are 5, 7, 22, 1 ahead for Biden (ahead of the
next most pop cand). So SC needs some attention.. Whoever is after the
nom, needs to clean his clock in South Carolina.

---

The Everly Brothers - Leave My Woman Alone \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/qx_pgSB_E5s)


---

Good profiling trick: look at intense disagg, conflict - usually the
two sides of the conf have the same type. Like Varoufuckis vs
Schauble, both are Mellow Meadow. Who gets the most brutal digs into
Trump?  Colbert. Etc..

Whatever we might know of other types, we only truly now our own
kind.

And when someone like us does something wrong, we insinctively know
where it comes from, so the attacks can be more pointed.

---

"@william_sw

Tesla. The more they make the more they lose. Scale of economy in BEVs broken". 

[Link](https://twitter.com/william_sw/status/1154299474753347584)

---

Ammonia.. the magic molecule. The best carrier for H2. Fertilizer
feedstock, wout which millions would go hungry. And now an element
for air-conditioning!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Why aren‚Äôt there more ammonia chillers used for building and commercial air-conditioning? (link: <a href="https://t.co/r3eumeCsdl">https://t.co/r3eumeCsdl</a>) <a href="https://t.co/61ePw49hVG">https://t.co/61ePw49hVG</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GoNatRefs?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GoNatRefs</a></p>&mdash; ammonia21.com (@ammonia21) <a href="https://twitter.com/ammonia21/status/1154305419692707841?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Metamaterials ‚Äî materials whose function is determined by structure, not composition ‚Äî have been designed to bend light and sound, transform from soft to stiff, and even dampen seismic waves from earthquakes. This is what Harvard did to design them <a href="https://t.co/QDjFqWEMUK">https://t.co/QDjFqWEMUK</a> <a href="https://t.co/Qkix4hvh3w">pic.twitter.com/Qkix4hvh3w</a></p>&mdash; Massimo (@Rainmaker1973) <a href="https://twitter.com/Rainmaker1973/status/1153994980949671936?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 24, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">üö®üëáüëèüö®üëáüëè<br>NET LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS $408MM</p>&mdash; TeslaCharts (@TESLAcharts) <a href="https://twitter.com/TESLAcharts/status/1154131093702008832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 24, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Now this is more interesting; math, philosophication behind the
so-called Ancestor Simulation.

[Link](https://youtu.be/hmVOV7xvl58?t=191)

---

It's all bunk. Follow this crap at your own expense. The FAQ (one of
the links Woit shared) says 'the experiments are, unfortunately, not
likely to offer many insight or opportunities for surprise; the result
can be predicted with very high confidence long in advance. QD is
roughly about demonstrating the internal (theoretical) compatibility
of unitary quantum dynamics with the appearance of classicality (and,
in particular, wavefunction collapse)'.

"Philip Ball at Quanta has a nice article on ‚ÄúQuantum Darwinism‚Äù and
experiments designed to exhibit actual toy examples of the idea in
action (I don‚Äôt think ‚Äútesting‚Äù the idea is quite the right language
in this context)"

[Link](http://www.math.columbia.edu/~woit/wordpress/?p=11131)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Gee whiz, it&#39;s almost like people hate the Beltway and the casual elite familiarity that tends to define it <a href="https://t.co/3hqTlnh2sK">https://t.co/3hqTlnh2sK</a></p>&mdash; Luke Savage (@LukewSavage) <a href="https://twitter.com/LukewSavage/status/1154256868937752577?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">A frail old man, unable to remember things, stumbling, refusing to answer basic questions...I said it in 2017 and Mueller confirmed it today ‚Äî All you pundits and moderates and lame Dems who told the public to put their faith in the esteemed Robert Mueller ‚Äî just STFU from now on</p>&mdash; Michael Moore (@MMFlint) <a href="https://twitter.com/MMFlint/status/1154066705284390912?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 24, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The TR banker guy is back, released from US, some say had ties to
Iranian sanction-violating oil-gold trade. Most think he was arrested
as tit-for-tat by US for TR distancing itself from US.

But overt slaps like F-35 prog removal already do that for DJT. This
banker biz always felt like a Bama bitchy sniping action. Plus US
doesnt seem to want an all-out punishment, so fine.

---

A radio station for Commodore 64 songs - [Link](https://www.slayradio.org)

The Commando theme song is the bomb - [Link](https://youtu.be/hIkylZfopSo?t=32)

---

Steve Jobs was not a Syrian immigrant; he was adopted and raised by
Americans Paul and Clara Jobs. His father, the Syrian immigrant, gave
up Steve for an adoption at a young age.

Also his bio father has a PhD.

(I am not saying non-PhD ppl are not worthy but the original commenter
might want to pick another example for his "signaling").

"Guy curses at Syrians while holding an iPhone [thanks to a Syrian he
is trying to say, implying Steve Jobs].. so we should have open
borders".

---

There is a lot of potential for, not necessary machine learning in
applied math, but base tools that were furthered because of machine
learning. Automatic differentiation for instance.

---

Aw man, Green Lantern too? .. Perfect char for Jar Jar actually. GL
now ring-create Cat in a Hat, Cat in a Hat in a tutu, Cat in a Hat in
a tutu in a Russian Doll, in a box. On and on it'll go..

---

SM will travel back in time, go to a different universe, travel
forward in time, and back to the first universe, so nothing will have
changed. And he'll do it so fast you wont see he did it. That scene
will be just that one shot on SM, that's it. No reason is given for
the move. It just dazzles you, and the movie pulls you in more at that
point. Complete immersion.

---

Superman will be flying around randomly, he'll say 'woah... I am so
confused right now...?'. There'll be bunch of unresolved plot lines
for random confusion. People will constantly run into eachother for no
reason. 'Batman? What are you doing in this telephone booth..? I'm,
like, here too.

So mystified'.

---

Jar Jar directing the next Sman? Yeah, go eff that up, stay away from
Trek, and other things.

---

Flusterclock

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The Dawn Of Low-Carbon Shipping on <a href="https://twitter.com/NPR?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NPR</a>: When they analyzed the entire system, researchers found that it would be possible to retrofit most types of existing vessels to run on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> and even easier to construct a new ship powered by <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FuelcellNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FuelcellNow</a> <a href="https://t.co/SrhwYCpWf4">https://t.co/SrhwYCpWf4</a>.</p>&mdash; IEA Hydrogen (@IEA_Hydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/IEA_Hydrogen/status/1153419461103357953?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 22, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Grim scenario..Hopefully doesn't happen.

But at least PMQ will have more drama, more comedy. 

"@MkBlyth

And so Boris now rules the land of Brexit. Quick prediction of next 12 months. Hard Brexit cushioned by massive tax cuts. Pound slumps, deficit blows out, Gilts hardly move. All of this is balanced with another round of welfare cuts. The poor are the ultimate Brexit backstop."

---

Boris' great-grandfather was Otto Turko, last secstate of the empire
in fact. He died in the country.

Boris be a tigga.

---

Aluminum is a light metal; so I bet these tablets weight little. Best
energy bang for your buck.

---

Sweet. I knew about aluminum being used in H2 generation, it's a cheap
material, not rare-earth, using it as tablets for instant energy
generation is excellent idea.

Is the licensing exclusive? Any avenues for public, commercial use?

"‚ÄúThis is on-demand hydrogen production [without catalyst ..]. Imagine
a squad of future Soldiers on a long range patrol far from base with
dead batteries and a desperate need to fire up their radio. One of the
Soldiers reaches for a metal tablet and drops it into a container and
adds water or some fluid that contains water such as urine,
immediately the tablet dissolves and hydrogen is released into a fuel
cell, providing instant power for the radio.‚Äù  "

[Link](http://www.hydrogenfuelnews.com/u-s-army-announces-exclusive-licensing-of-new-hydrogen-technology/8537927/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The US ARMY has signed an exclusive licensing agreement to make <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> with aluminum alloy powder and any fluid that contains water.<br><br>In desperate situations, soldiers can add urine to the tablet to fire-up a radio signal to call for help. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a><a href="https://t.co/ErhHCQAIhw">https://t.co/ErhHCQAIhw</a> <a href="https://t.co/Muwyxuroqm">pic.twitter.com/Muwyxuroqm</a></p>&mdash; H2 &amp; Fuel Cell News (@H2NewsGlobal) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2NewsGlobal/status/1153658982269161474?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 23, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

![](https://cdn-chat.sstatic.net/chat/img/404_funny_hats.jpg)

---

"@patrickmbigger

I don't get surprised very often when I see big climate change
numbers, but 700mmcf of CH4 dumped (in the pure sense, as waste) into
the atmosphere daily is effing jaw dropping."

---

"@CarlKoinberg

The lithium ion battery is made up by numerous cells. When a cell in
the battery burn, it triggers a chain reaction, and spreads to
adjacent cells. Lithium burns at a temperature of 558 C. The high
temperature, and the chain reaction makes the fire almost impossible
to put out."

---

IMO Justin Hammer in Iron Man 2 is an underrated comedic
character. The guy was hilarious.

---

Bryson & Ho - fantastic book with such concise math and explanation -
written in ... 1975! U know a book is good even by looking at its
typesetting, the frequency of its letters, symbols tell the
tale. Every word, paragraph, bullseye. Nothing is wasted.

---

Keep telling ya... Dont wanna be the one to say "told you so" when the
nuke hits the fan. 

"@DEFCONWSALERTS

California‚Äôs nuclear power plants built in close proximity to the San
Andreas fault, setting up catastrophic ‚ÄúFukushima‚Äù event for the West
Coast"

[Link](https://twitter.com/DEFCONWSALERTS/status/1153357138615513088)

---

Aah that's where the words came from. What a shit show. Their
simulators are okay that's abt it.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">What is OpenAI? I don&#39;t know anymore.<br>A non-profit that leveraged good will whilst silently giving out equity for years prepping a shift to for-profit that is now seeking to license closed tech through a third party by segmenting tech under a banner of pre/post &quot;AGI&quot; technology? <a href="https://t.co/X6JIIuvcAd">https://t.co/X6JIIuvcAd</a></p>&mdash; Smerity (@Smerity) <a href="https://twitter.com/Smerity/status/1153364705777311745?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 22, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"After a long snooze during the Obama years, the USA is waking up and
smelling the hydrogen":

[Link](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/h2rail-workshop)

"North Carolina and San Bernardino, California, are poised to put the first hydrail wheels on rails."

[Link](http://www.netnewsledger.com/2019/07/22/the-usa-is-waking-up-and-smelling-the-hydrogen/)

---

I checked the numbers. It's true. 

"10,000 liters of water is needed to grow enough cotton for one pair
of denim jeans."

---

:) I am glad my feed does not contain such ppl except ones who are mad at them

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I think that the string &quot;Pre-AGI&quot; is the shortest number of characters that gives me an instant rage aneurism. I despair for the future of our once approximately scientific field, now become the world&#39;s most well-financed techno-cult.</p>&mdash; Edward Grefenstette (@egrefen) <a href="https://twitter.com/egrefen/status/1153398849953775617?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 22, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@AWeigmannn

Anglo American Platinum announced on Monday: 'We are screening opportunities to use \#FuelCell trucks in our fleet, and we think by this time next year we'll have the largest fuel-cell truck operating anywhere in the world.'"

---

Hah. Just noticed her name is like "crystal ball".

Nice job parents. At least it's not one of those hippie boomer parent
names; I know a Jennifer with double 'n' intead of double 'f'. Way to
be 'out of the ordinary', 'rebellious' boomers, 'bucking the
system'. Enjoy your price-inflated real-estate.

---

Grebe - No Whiskey For Me \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/7wYmagZZeeg)

---

Duncan Watts - "For 20 years I thought my job was as a basic
scientist. Publish papers and throw them over the wall for someone
else to apply. I now realise that there's no one on the other side of
the wall. Just a huge pile of papers that we've all thrown over."

---

Snooks Eaglin [I'm A] Country Boy Down In New Orleans \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/ORxcD4oZfQA)

---

Cute

[Link](https://twitter.com/amiedoubleD/status/1152965582821703680)

---

Programmable small circuit - Adafruit Circuit Playground -
programmable in Python. [Video](https://youtu.be/3oEl2AX6-VM?t=38)

---

<img width="300" src="https://www.bookharbour.com/media/catalog/product/cache/c687aa7517cf01e65c009f6943c2b1e9/s/e/sex0015.jpg"/>

Can you determine longitude with a sextant? Yes. Based on moon-sun
angles, and mapping them to known GMT angle / times, figure out time
at Greenwich, u know your own time (at the very least noon), based on
the diff calculate longitude. Latitude is easy anyway.

But, GMT-synced clocks are still better. 

---

I still want Israel to exist, in fact stay there and thrive, so they
teach tech to Palestenians, Arabs. Wouldn't that be better than
killing them?

One state solution.

And I support BDS. There is no contradiction here.

---

Deter. Right.

"The Air Force Has Sent Stealth F-22 Raptors to Qatar to Deter Iran"

[Link](https://nationalinterest.org/blog/buzz/air-force-has-sent-stealth-f-22-raptors-qatar-deter-iran-67867)

---

I am boycotting HP; I see HP notebooks in the stores, I could buy one, now I won't. 

"HP companies, @HP & @HPE , provide Israel with the technology to
maintain its apartheid rule over Palestinians."

[Link](https://twitter.com/BDSmovement/status/1153016800612892674)

---

Little puzzley "math" gems do not interest me at all. "Possible to divide any polygon into 4 regions of equal area with two orthogonal ... blah blah blah". I am after deep insight, the things that give you maximum leverage, not bullshit cocktail talking points.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr">ü§™</p>&mdash; DynamicalSystemsSIAM (@DynamicsSIAM) <a href="https://twitter.com/DynamicsSIAM/status/1153034633665077248?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 21, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Woha. 1200$ a month for a bunk bed. 

SF is fukked.

[Link](https://twitter.com/alexisohanian/status/1152563800517828608)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Tesla fast charge: 15 min/car gives 4 cars/h. 4 x 24 = 96 cars/day. 15 min of charge gives around 200 km range. Hydrogen: One dispenser, 4 min/car gives 15 cars/h. 15 x 24 = 360 cars / day. 4 min of charge gives around 600 km range. FCEV is around 11 times more efficient than BEV</p>&mdash; Carl Koinberg Henrikson (@CarlKoinberg) <a href="https://twitter.com/CarlKoinberg/status/1152845277147074560?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 21, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Dried and ground vegetables - they have spinach, even broccoli. 

[Link](https://www.kuruyesildukkan.com/Sebze-Tozlari)

Green peppers

[Link](https://www.kurucum.com/kurutulmus-yesil-biber.html)

---

Scientist in US was measuring the temparature of the moon, from all
the way on Earth, in 1885. How f--ing cool is that?  Instead of
looking for mystery in backward-ass Egyptian tech (pyramids!) the real
mystery is within a few hundred years. Then another dude takes that
research uses it for his greenhouse effect research? Pfff

[Link](https://youtu.be/Le0n4mCRkzY?t=599)

---

Mechanics is all about differential equations. Then you look at analog circuits, they too are all about differential equations. I wonder if ppl used circuits to "solve" DEs. Because you could theoretically solder a circuit for the formula you want to solve. There is a thing for integration, you could do addition... 

---

Motherfrackers need to get fracked up

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">‚ÄúIf we sell alfalfa to Saudi Arabia or China, it‚Äôs basically us exporting water there, so what‚Äôs the difference?‚Äù Wealthy landownding families in desert regions of Texas want to get richer selling their water to frackers. <a href="https://t.co/bmUHyu27BR">https://t.co/bmUHyu27BR</a> <a href="https://t.co/EOa0B7T0PL">pic.twitter.com/EOa0B7T0PL</a></p>&mdash; Adam Tooze (@adam_tooze) <a href="https://twitter.com/adam_tooze/status/1152994144312274945?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 21, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

It's hilarious during days of less communication, ppl were so ignorant
of these copycats. When TR Ozal once said "we have no alternative" as
an attack against his then leftist opponents, noone knew he stole the
line from Thathcer in UK. 

---

TF had a copycat in gobble gobble. Prominent scumbag, had the same
sleazy style, always watching for / protecting some kind of interest,
down to that stupid smile (a new day is upon us, feel the euphoria,
the markets, flat earth, c'mon show some teeth).

---

LOL. DJT calls T. "suck on this" Friedman an ass-kisser, it doesnt
even make the news.

He deader than dead.

It's a mind over matter bitch... We dont mind, and *you dont matter*.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The moir√© effect is an optical illusion created by parallel lines crossing over each other in the field of view; you can use this effect to make looping animations <a href="https://t.co/sAnAx1zByV">https://t.co/sAnAx1zByV</a> [source of the gif: <a href="https://t.co/1eWxLky5zY">https://t.co/1eWxLky5zY</a>] <a href="https://t.co/ZlV6v9WgFy">pic.twitter.com/ZlV6v9WgFy</a></p>&mdash; Massimo (@Rainmaker1973) <a href="https://twitter.com/Rainmaker1973/status/1152536942166401024?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 20, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

We Been Knew

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/tisheriffic/status/1152755132733411328)

---

"@BrentToderian

‚ÄúAdding car lanes to deal with traffic congestion is like loosening
your belt to cure obesity." ‚Äî Lewis Mumford, 1955."

---

Yes because such systems are the easiest to find the data for, and ML
is extremely reliant on data. Like, "does the picture have a cat or
not?". You can find training data very easily for that.

Scifi TV: "Yes/No decisions are the easiest for AI"

---

He is right. Sethian works with PDEs (used in phy) on all kinds of
interesting problems. We need more of this, but instead a lot of brain
power is wasted on the "statistical thing", where practitioners mainly
chase more and more data.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Jamie Sethian, in his inimitable style, boiled this down into the quip that &quot;ML is good for problems where the cost of being wrong is low.&quot;</p>&mdash; David Bindel (@DavidBindel) <a href="https://twitter.com/DavidBindel/status/1152671775974723585?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 20, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Mathematical physics has lots of "forms". These are precooked
formulations, like Euler-Lagrange, or the Hamiltonian. U need a
certain thing find thr form for it, plug in, done.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">PULL THE MOON OUT OF THE SKY AND MAKE IT APOLOGIZE FOR HOSTING MISOGYNY ON ITS FACE. <a href="https://t.co/CWopqCiGWb">https://t.co/CWopqCiGWb</a></p>&mdash; ANDREW SANTINO (@CheetoSantino) <a href="https://twitter.com/CheetoSantino/status/1151311241979129856?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 17, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Forgot to mention Israel as an energy starved country hence with a
need to innovate in this area along with Japan.

"Since its founding in 2011, GenCell has grown to more than 80
employees, including many veterans of the Apollo & Mir projects. The
company is headquartered in Israel "

---

Johnson and Nixon did more for moon landing than JFK. Johnson
recommended moonlanding as a goal to begin with. But JFK looks good on
TV (and is a LTCB type like Beto always getting more accolades than
they deserve) so he is sadly the "front man" for this historical
moment.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The evidence is clear and incontrovertible: The political choice worldwide today is to actually PAY oil, gas and coal barons to cause climate mayhem and fry us all, even though <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/climate?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#climate</a> action is cheap and affordable <br><br>I can‚Äôt get my head around how insane this is <a href="https://t.co/sxMCXhWmXd">pic.twitter.com/sxMCXhWmXd</a></p>&mdash; Assaad Razzouk (@AssaadRazzouk) <a href="https://twitter.com/AssaadRazzouk/status/1152186340039188481?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 19, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">When you think EBITDA is what owners get to keep <a href="https://t.co/ASnajL5Yec">pic.twitter.com/ASnajL5Yec</a></p>&mdash; Brent Beshore (@BrentBeshore) <a href="https://twitter.com/BrentBeshore/status/1151829190653595659?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 18, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Some said TG movie feels like a commercial rather than a movie. It's
true. You could take any 5 second sequence from most of it, and mumble
the name of some product afterwards and it would be like a commercial.

---

Funny story - guy walks up to M. Ironside one day and says "f$!\#k
you!". MI is like WTH? Apparently dude was so inspired by *Top Gun* he
joined the mil, became a fighter pilot, but the life wasn't like the
movie. He was pissed.

---

Cruise says the new *Top Gun* is a love letter to aviation. I get the
angle; they didnt want to make it a love letter to war.

---

Hananuer is a billionaire in favor of redistribution. So not "education will fix inequality" type of billionaire, like R Dalio.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">There is no room for moderation any more in the Democratic Party. If we cannot unambiguously and materially improve the economic circumstances of the majority of citizens, then the party has no place in society. Let‚Äôs all just be republicans and grab what we can now.</p>&mdash; Nick Hanauer (@NickHanauer) <a href="https://twitter.com/NickHanauer/status/1152184802084343808?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 19, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@adam_tooze

From one dream to another. Outside Cleveland Ohio, Amazon is repurposing the failed mall .. as ‚Äúfulfillment centers‚Äù for its giant e-commerce empire"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/adam_tooze/status/1152216522670125056)

---

That is one pissed off Swede..

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/inteenskul/status/1151811117175496704)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Berkeley Earth&#39;s temperature update is out, supporting <a href="https://twitter.com/NASAGISS?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@NASAGISS</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/CopernicusECMWF?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@CopernicusECMWF</a> in finding that June 2019 was the warmest June on record at 1.19C (¬± 0.08C) above the 1850-1900 average. Via <a href="https://twitter.com/RARohde?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@RARohde</a>: <a href="https://t.co/PkaO6JBqP2">pic.twitter.com/PkaO6JBqP2</a></p>&mdash; Zeke Hausfather (@hausfath) <a href="https://twitter.com/hausfath/status/1151621521518936065?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 17, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>



