

Class war my ass... Just because guy is seemingly "left", doesnt mean he has to be defended at all costs #venezuella

---

Dont know much abt Stone, thought he was a Trump supporter, then heard him repeat the word "dementia" on interview abt Trump in psyop fashion as if he wanted an impeachment to happen (through dementia). Then I was like this m..t..fka is some shady bitch.

---

I think Liz II is suffering from experience overload. Like pff I've seen WWII what is this small potatoes nonsense (Brexit)? That was a mistake. Maybe she could've done more to prevent some of this damage early on.

---

Right right.. that was a thing... When Mad visited TR he went to a
resto and stuffed himself w food the pics made it to V and apparently
there was a small scandal around that.

Just saw a TR satire on it I remembered 

http://zaytung.com/haberdetay.asp?newsid=353741

It says Mad was "eating for all his hungry countrymen, mocking
imperialism in the process"

---

Yep. Stick to what u know.

"Apple dismisses over 200 staff from autonomous vehicle group"

---

Aussie CSIRO invented Wifi...? These guys are mad innovators arent they?

---

@davidharsanyi

"Reminder that @BernieSanders, who might well win the Dem nomination, once said these words in this order: "the American dream is more apt to be realized in Venezuela" than the United States. (h/t @ReaganBattalion). He was not alone."

He called the regime a dictatorship during 2016 and distanced himself from it actually.

---

You bitch and moan now, left. U  speaka different when you r in charge.

---

7% of Venezuellans left the country since 2014. Noone wants this son of a bitch, esp. V neighbors #maduro

---

Conspiracy Keanu. Apparently it was a meme theme

![](conskeanu.jpg)

---

Another

![](conskeanu.jpg)

---



Actually Brexit is syptom of something else; abt Britain's place in the world. A country who is culturally significant, creator of  a former empire, having kickstarted the current one, it is natural it thinks it can do whatever it wants.

When I wrote abt the US Pemmic. War, the actors were interesting; here Brits had to step in and merge two yankee companies who were at war. They were the grownups in this picture. Good or bad, for a while these people ran America. So it is hard 4 them to accept rules from others

---

When I wrote abt the US Pemmic. War, the actors were interesting; here
Brits had to step in and merge two yankee companies who were at
war. They were the grownups in this picture. Good or bad, for a while
these people ran America. So it is hard 4 them to accept rules from
others

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">An interesting fight has broken out in physics. Obviously I don&#39;t understand the details, but the amount of hostility Hossendelder is facing is truly amazing, what she colorfully calls &quot;the flavors of their discontent&quot;. <a href="https://t.co/TNSbE3FIeu">https://t.co/TNSbE3FIeu</a> <a href="https://t.co/pNVvj1TZHd">https://t.co/pNVvj1TZHd</a></p>&mdash; Shravan Vasishth (@shravanvasishth) <a href="https://twitter.com/shravanvasishth/status/1091650521033859073?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 2, 2019</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Yea.. Kudlow asked abt potential end of cycle (good question) and he answers there is a .. second cycle? This guy is making it up as he goes...

No more drugs for that man

---

@ElysiaSkye

Everything comes to you at the right time. #BePatient

---

Interesting; real estate tax thing could be a play 4 bboomer votes. Millenials are obviously a bigger group. The bill will die in the House for sure, maybe Reps hope to make some noise having supported it.. 

Meh. Is this the best you've got dude?

----

Nice

"I'm not drunk, I'm just drinking 
I'm not stoned, I'm just thinking"

---

@sapinker

Despite the panic about fake news in the '16 election, most was seen by just 1% of readers, & spread by just 0.1%, mostly right-wing political junkies.

---

@egrefen

'"AI is the new electricity"

"AI = gradients + pray + love"

Etc.

Is there something in the water in silicon valley (and occasionally
elsewhere) which compels people to write what are, at best, empty ML
platitudes, and at worst (to paraphrase Pauli) "not even wrong"?'

@zacharylipton

Retweeted Edward Grefenstette

"Yes. Possibly mercury."

---

Tommy Douglas - Mice and Cats. T. Douglas created the Canadian single-payer system

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g4_v2701GMg&t=739

---

@dallenallred

After spending 6 months wandering through the healthcare supply chain, here is my “hot take”

Healthcare is fundamentally cheap. 

It just has really high prices.

Pick something: brain surgery, labs, doctors visit, medication, imaging. The unit costs are <25% of reimbursement

---

Another case 4 UBI; incomes can never increase past a certain amt; when they reach a threshold rising incomes contribute to company earning decline, then to an overall recession, at which pt employees are fired -> no income.

---

[Comment](https://mobile.twitter.com/garrygolden/status/1084927765806284802:)

Example below of plug-in EVs falling short. System mgmt and
coordination costs for recharging are too high. Est. 30% can plug-in
at home. Julich (Germany) study shows hydrogen refueling is cheaper
beyond 10-20m EVs. H2 EVs cheaper per kW for OEMs. Molecules win long
EV game.

A: Yes

[Ralph
Nader](https://nader.org/2013/11/21/21-ways-canadian-health-care-system-better-obamacare/)

21 Ways the Canadian Health Care System is Better than Obamacare

A: Nice

Q: Who was [the Bitcoin inventor, whose identity remains hidden]
Satoshi Nakamoto?

A: Most likely Hal Finney. He was the #2 Bitcoin user, its first
tester. He sadly passed away.

Writing analysis showed Finney's writing most closely resembled
Satoshi's.

One thing he said shortly before his death had always bothered me.. 'I
have no worries my legacy is secure'. Ask any profiler: this is not
something the #2 guy would say before his death.

Hal was hard-core crypto guy himself. And: dude named Satoshi N. lived
nearby him. The Nakamoto living close to HF was burned during mortgage
crisis. So I bet HF saw his predicament, and planned BTC as a way to
correct the sys which burned his neighbor and many others.

<a name="brexit"></a>

CNN Conversation:

MP: People voted to get out of EU

CNN interviewer: they did not know what they were voting for

MP: Your comment was extremely patronizing..

A: Ha ha

Interviewer was right. Brit politicians dropped the ball by asking ppl
something that is extremely technical and their **fucking job to
decide**. As if populists, they asked for a solution when ppl are
imbeciles on policies they don't experience firsthand.

"Oh but asking ppl was democratic". Well that decision was made by
politicians, who are elected by the people, so if they *didn't* ask,
that decision would still be democratic. 

And let's be honest here, Cameron got into all this not bcz he wanted
to 'ask the people', but because he wanted to crush his detractors
inside the party. The vote was supposed to be a layup, remember?. But
the detractors sensed this, and campaigned in a do-or-die mode bcz it
was abt their survival which ironically increased their effectiveness,
they sold their message (read: lied) better. Now here we are.

Q: Where is the line between representation and direct democracy?

A: In a modern context they should be kept seperate

Industrial and post-industrial contexts are like oil and water. They
cannot mix. You can't have a little bit of this a little bit of that.
If you do, you end up with Brexit. 


Q: What are the energy densities of different energy storage methods?

A:

Liithium-ion battery - 265 Wh / kg

Ammonia - 6250 Wh / kg

Hydrogen - 33000 Wh / kg

Synthetic diesel - 13000 Wh / kg

Let's not forget Li-on degrades badly after a few years, and cold
weather does a number on them.

Also, synthetic diesel's density is *higher* than regular (dirty)
diesel. We posted about e-diesel tech b4, it is a drop-in replacement
for diesel.

Forbes:

In 2011 there were 115 billionaires in China. Since then, 72 have
died, with 15 murders, 17 suicides, 7 accidental deaths, and 19 from
illness. Another 14 were executed.

A: Sucks to be a Chinese billionaire heh?

Q: Companies that regularly attend Davos underperform the S&P 500 by a
lot

![](davos.jpeg)

A: Ouch
