# Tweets - Week 32

"Why should a feudal lord give up his land for a regular person" is
this guy's message basically. Go suck some root retard.

---

Funny I was thinking abt a drone design the other day and thought, for
a cheap design, "remote automation" (as in within 1 km) could be
possible; Drone is in constant radio contact, relays sensor, takes
command, processing done on smartphone. Delays, choppy data factored
in the compute; it could work.

This is to keep the drone skeletal, small, and  light.

"@chr1sa

Every subculture has their own schisms. In the case of drones, it goes
all the way back to model airplane nerds ("operators") vs software
geeks ("developers').

The first believe in sticks and pilots, the second in silicon and
autonomy. "

---

Some dirty Cobalt talk. 

"The Opec comparison is not a pie in the sky - and the company does
not even have to look for allies because of its market power. It is
not without irony that the technology that is supposed to push back
oil is even more critical than the black gold."

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/william_sw/status/1159384716547698688)

---

I wrote tutorials on a lot of subjects; I look at the way the high-level categorizations came out, there isn't any machine learning, "AI" category. Parts of ML articles fell under computer science, other parts fell under statistics.

---

Mika Brezikinskinsinky-Ska. Shabatsky..? Kibitzen? 

Yes. Daughter of late Brzezinski, the strategist.

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Nikola Awarded $1.7 Million U.S. Department of Energy Award to Advance its Fuel Cell Membrane-<a href="https://twitter.com/nikolamotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@nikolamotor</a> to partner with Carnegie Mellon Univ., Northeastern Univ. &amp; Georgia Institute of Technology on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> technology research-<a href="https://t.co/aUYIg7Likj">https://t.co/aUYIg7Likj</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogennow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogennow</a> <a href="https://t.co/TLSSi8iXxh">pic.twitter.com/TLSSi8iXxh</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1159210562443759616?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 7, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The most pervasive &amp; consequential propaganda doesn&#39;t consist of lies or war psyops, but the simple, everyday act of manufacturing normalcy. By making the current violent, exploitative paradigm seem normal &amp; safe, they can make all attempts to resist it look freakish &amp; dangerous.</p>&mdash; Caitlin Johnstone ⏳ (@caitoz) <a href="https://twitter.com/caitoz/status/1158890445302185984?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 6, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

\#energytwitter is the perfect example of what would happen if people
were relied on to solve huge technical problems. The tag mostly has
second, third derivative of what's already being talked abt in policy
circles, and not even the good parts of those circles, the show-biz
parts, like electrification etc.

--- 

"Fantastic news for FCHEA member @PlugPowerInc Along with increasing
revenue, Plug has shipped over 28,000 #fuelcells and has become the
world's largest user of liquid #hydrogen, utilizing 15 tons daily,
more than NASA. Plug Power revenue rises in Q2 — and it teases 3 more
big announcements in 2019"

[Link](https://www.bizjournals.com/albany/news/2019/08/06/plug-power-revenue-increase-q2-2019.html)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Nikola receives $1.7M grant from US Department of Energy for fuel cell research<a href="https://t.co/JcsgVXGQiZ">https://t.co/JcsgVXGQiZ</a></p>&mdash; TESLARATI (@Teslarati) <a href="https://twitter.com/Teslarati/status/1159177483457048578?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 7, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

"Congratulations to the Nikola Fuel Cell MEA team for getting the US #DOE Heavy Duty Membrane $1.7M development project along with University and Industry Partners!"

[Link](https://twitter.com/nikolamotor/status/1159152712661000192)

---

Little rivalry there between Japan and China to showcase H2 at
sporting events. It's on!

"@H2NewsGlobal

China has broken ground on it's #hydrogen energy project that will be
showcased at the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, including a new
generation plant and 2 #H2 stations."

[Link](https://twitter.com/H2NewsGlobal/status/1159098586493333504)

---

Sweet \#bernie #rogan

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2O-iLk1G_ng)

---

They somewhat are, but I don't see US invading Mexico for its issues
with Hispanics.

Plus Kurds have been here longer than tigga, and I use the T word
ethnically the way nats use. The term is laden confusion, in reality
so-called "Turks" and Kurds are both ancient, local to the area -Turks
did not wholly come from Central Asia as some dumb nats
claim-. Whoever arrived in little numbers melted away into the main
population. The current culture is a continuation of what was here
before that arrival.

Language, schmlanguage.. Whichever language is used as main language
isn't that important. Brits and Americans both speak English, but are
they similar? US is more similar to Germans than to Brits who speak a
different language.

"Are TR-Kurd issue (citizenship, cultural unity) related to
Hispanic-US issue, both cases have a minority whose ethnic breathren
outside their borders as a neighbor, and that minority also as
concentrated population inside their borders."

---

Frack up the motherfrackers.

"@patravasio

Such utter bull crap from the American Petroleum Thugs. Fracking
poisons the planet: Water. Ground. Air. The whole shebang.  Stop these
fuckers now".

[Link](https://twitter.com/patravasio/status/1158763766143602690)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This is America in 2019.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/VideogamesAreNotToBlame?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#VideogamesAreNotToBlame</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GunControlNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GunControlNow</a> <a href="https://t.co/MVy1Uwl7bh">pic.twitter.com/MVy1Uwl7bh</a></p>&mdash; Democracy for America (@DFAaction) <a href="https://twitter.com/DFAaction/status/1158451742897557504?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@Malbrunot

According to Rohollah Faghihi Al-Monitor's correspondent in Tehran,
Macron offered Rohani a $ 15 billion credit line to circumvent US
sanctions in their last phone conversation."

---

Fake scarcity

[Video](https://youtu.be/rPermdrA-Po?t=128)

\#ubi

---

Here's the [test](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/08/mbti_en.html). Go nutz. 

For thourough profiling, subscribe for 1 year, and DM.

"I want to know my MBTI type!"

*2019-8-7 13:3:58*

---

Public policy, same way. Bcz you have such a blunt instrument, you
need to prefer broad opportunity increasing measures, not diddle about
shit that noone is 100% sure about, which, if wrong, can cause undue
damage with that blunt instrument. The pieces will fall where they
may, but policy at least would have done all it could.

*2019-8-7 13:3:58*

---

These are two different things; one is internal company discipline,
the other a matter of public sphere. Inside companies, it is not a
democracy. In tech companies ppl work together all the time, and u
gonna have this jackass sitting next to a girl, [head
bobbing](https://media.tenor.com/images/79b773c092464781a0949c6f808e8345/tenor.gif),
"yeeah I dropped them words bitch, it wuz *me*". You cant have a work
culture like that.

Remember the Diversity Club. The first rule of Diversity Club is you
do not talk about the Diversity Club. 

Outside, go scream your head off, do whatevery frack u wanna do.

"But u say Google should respect free speech than congrad them for
firing their employee for speaking out abt genders!"

*2019-8-7 12:56:11*

---

"@g8ge

Thoughtful essay by Tom Hanna: 'Consulting has made me a better scientist'"

[Link](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/consulting-has-made-me-better-scientist-thomas-hanna)

*2019-8-7 12:51:41*

---

Fueling a car is like sex; ya take the pump, stick it in there, liquid
comes out... arrrarrrrrrghgghhh... with little convulsion, u see the
whites of the eyes.. Total bomb. I dont think u get the same
experience with a BEV. It'd be weak IMO.

\#fuelcell \#H2 

*2019-8-7 12:14:21*

--- 

Yeah no shit. People aint stupid when it comes to their own needs, consumption.

"71 percent [of people in US poll] can't wait longer than charging for
30 minutes if the car is to drive just over 30 miles"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/H2Bjorn/status/1158840062320283648)

*2019-8-7 0:25:7*

---

Ask any tuber they will tell u what needs to be done. Adpocalypse, baseless demonitization of vids .. Left is especially a target. U r messing with people's livehood here. Not cool.

*2019-8-6 23:41:4*

---

In the right frame of mind the suck is entertaining. 

*2019-8-6 21:40:24*

---

And they start throwing around effin Bayesinism too (cuz it's all
relative you see), the bad smell just gets stronger..

*2019-8-6 21:18:37*

---

The best part is when anti-realists say "the scientific method *should
change to accomodate us*", as in agreeing with experimental data is no
longer relevant bcz their little toy theories keep coming short on
that front. Susskind is the worst, bugs Smolin to no end.

*2019-8-6 21:17:30*

---

3 million $ award given to supergravity related research. 

Hossfelder thinks this was a very bad idea:

"To date, we have no evidence that supergravity is a correct
description of nature. Supergravity may one day become useful to
calculate properties of certain materials, but so far this research
direction has not led to much.

The works by Ferrera, Freedman, and van Nieuwenhuizen have arguably
been influential, if by influential you mean that papers have been
written about it. Supergravity and supersymmetry are mathematically
very fertile ideas. They lend themselves to calculations that
otherwise would not be possible and that is how, in the past four
decades, physicists have successfully built a beautiful,
supersymmetric, math-castle on nothing but thin air.

Awarding a scientific prize, especially one accompanied by so much
publicity, for an idea that has no evidence speaking for it, sends the
message that in the foundations of physics contact to observation is
no longer relevant"

[Link](http://backreaction.blogspot.com/2019/08/special-breakthrough-prize-awarded-for.html?m=1)

*2019-8-6 21:13:14*

---

It's funny for the longest time I was mixing up chaos theoretician
Smale with physicist Smolin, so I probabaly paid more attention to
Smolin for that reason.

*2019-8-6 20:48:44*

---

"@thehill

Top climate change scientist quits USDA, says Trump administration
tried to bury his study"

[Link](https://twitter.com/thehill/status/1158689183969566721)

*2019-8-6 13:51:56*

---

You can derive T + V = constant from first principles too?  Very
cool. Bryson & Ho, AppOptCont, pg. 51.

*2019-8-6 13:44:24*

---

And some probably lost more by not panicking at the right time.

How is this guy still on TV?

"Nobody ever made a dime panicking" -- Cramer

*2019-8-6 13:29:6*

---

How is
[this](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2018/11/powered-by-solid-h2_26.html)
tech coming along? Solid H2 using magnes + nano, from Kuwait?
Commercialize, scale, chop chop! What are you waiting for? Another
Saddam to invade your ass?

*2019-8-6 13:10:12*

---

A girl likes Hobbs & Shaw, a movie I read scatching review on, mostly
for being "too bro". I bet the movie is good.

[Link](https://twitter.com/hexsteph/status/1158527254642610176)

*2019-8-6 12:55:32*

---

Is reincarnation possible? Sure; in an ancestral simulation scenario
reincarnation would be a player entering the game multiple times. In
fact, in our profiling one group of attributes talks abt the general
inclination of a type (their negative), like *High Horse* carrying the
attributes of a king or queen, or another of a surgent... These could
be interpreted as these ppl *played* a king or queen in earlier games
(now they are trying something else). 

I am sure a lot of people feel there is something ancient, persistent
inside of them, that even predates their birth, this could be it. Like
the mystic says "there is another me inside of me (Y. Emre)", could be
loosely refering to a shadow-reversal as in *Was That Really Me?* (by
Quenk) maybe? But maybe also a more persistent type attribute which is
from an "earlier game".

*2019-8-6 12:21:51*

---

HFC in India, awesome. 

"C.N.R. Rao [..] on Monday said [India's] focus should be making fuel
cells from sodium and hydrogen.

The market is currently attuned towards lithium-based fuel cells but
that element is not available in the country as also cobalt.

Both the elements are crucial in making of batteries to power mobile
phones, laptops and even electric vehicles.

'The government has correctly called for the move towards electric
vehicles; I have no issue with that but since we have no reserves of
either lithium or cobalt and China having effectively taken control
over Congo where cobalt is available in abundance, we have to shift
towards sodium and hydrogen. We can do magnesium fuel cells too but it
is in short supply' he said.

[..] Rao also pointed out that certain elements like lithium and even
helium are at risk of being depleted and lost forever.

'We have been able to prove in the laboratory about the efficiency of
fuel cells made of sodium, magnesium and hydrogen. Fuel cells of
hydrogen cause no pollution as water is a by-product. The challenge is
to scale it to commercial operations and it is very much possible,' he
maintained.

[Link](https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/india-must-opt-for-sodium-and-hydrogen-fuel-cells-says-cnr-rao/article28828093.ece)

*2019-8-6 12:21:51*

---

Politics, Kool-Aid, comedians. 

[Video](https://youtu.be/u6nqvgPaw6g)

*2019-8-6 12:14:10*

---

A lot of people wrongly assume elementary teaching is beneath a top
scientist. Nothing can be further from the truth. Einstein taught
algebra to little kids all the time. When I received a tutorial from a
researcher / scientist (undergrad Chemistry), I knew this has to be
the way to learn and teach. In a span of 30 minutes I must have
received instruction worth half a semester. I guarantee it, there is
nothing like it.

Not all top researchers are good teachers of course, but it's not hard
to find ppl who are good at both. Take that and let Internet do its
thing; amplify that one voice to millions. Instead of trolls, let
quality troll.

*2019-8-6 11:13:35*

---

Why is it good to have researchers, the best, teaching (even for the
lowest levels), fired all teachers, relied on [digital
content](../../2018/09/public-education.md)
for each subject? Feynman could be teaching your kid algebra,
Einstein, arithmetic, or someone like them.

*2019-8-6 10:12:1*

---

You've done enough for the public Sir; let the public do something for
you.

TO is the creator of the scientific package `numpy` and contrib. to
`scipy`, to immensely important packages for scientific
computation. The man needs to be given a medal, perhaps along with
Torvalds, W. McKinney, Aaron Meurer, and many more.

"@teoliphant

After 12 years of being in Austin, I finally used the bus to get
downtown.  I can't believe it took me this long.. @CapMetroATX was
excellent.  Using a Park-N-Ride is definitely the best way to get
downtown stress free."

*2019-8-6 10:2:53*

---

2,188th mass shooting since Sandy Hook. Mind boggling.

*2019-8-6 1:12:1*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I&#39;m religious but NOT spiritual I just love rules and being afraid of sex</p>&mdash; Julia Claire (@ohJuliatweets) <a href="https://twitter.com/ohJuliatweets/status/937836303944749056?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 5, 2017</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-6 1:6:48*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">They always tell us the tools of mass surveillance are intended for use only against the faraway Other; the foreign enemy, the terrorist, the criminal. And then, just a few years later, we realize precisely the same system secretly surrounds us at home. <a href="https://t.co/XY0QUEM4Uw">https://t.co/XY0QUEM4Uw</a></p>&mdash; Edward Snowden (@Snowden) <a href="https://twitter.com/Snowden/status/1157397713312501761?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 2, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-6 1:1:49*

---

"HK is currently the center of China's ability to raise US dollars in
Asia. China is desparetely short of US dollars and, therefore, needs
HK to remain a non-tariffed most-favored-nation trader with the US and
the UK. Financial teetering coupled with political uncertainty could
abruptly change the complexion of the foundation of investments in HK
and throughout Asia" - K Bass

*2019-8-6 0:40:18*

---

Before I blame movies for gun violence, I'd blame the militarization
of culture, through, ahem, the military. With countries around the
world having been invaded left and right, noone can assume the
invading country will not experience a blow back on its
culture. During 2008 crisis, didn't even economist constantly invoke
military terms, like "shock and awe"? Isn't the police heavily
militarized? People get choked to death for selling cigarettes illegally?

*2019-8-6 0:9:40*

---

Good 4 you Spiegel. 

MS is a libertard but there is hope.

"@markbspiegel

... I do believe in banning assault weapons (yes, lines can be drawn, gun-owners— we also don’t allow bazookas and ground-to-air missiles)"

*2019-8-6 0:9:18*

---

Wut? Inside her office?

"@ElonBachman

The office worker who was struck, inside her office, by an
out-of-control $TSLA has just died.

Full list of $TSLA deaths can be found at [http://www.tesladeaths.com](http://www.tesladeaths.com)"

*2019-8-5 23:52:41*

---

Silicon Valley (tv show) is cancelled, season 6 is last. Yep - I guess
they saw the real Silicon Valley is comedy enough.

*2019-8-5 23:36:16*

---

"@HayekAndKeynes

Trapped capital has led to all sorts of perversions in the Chinese
economy.  (Ex. residential real estate cap rates near 1-2%). With big
moves in CNH, we may finally have a real test of their ability to keep
things under control. There is a mountain of money looking to get
out."

*2019-8-5 23:24:12*

---

"@Jkylebass · 17h chinese currency (USD/CNH) 1 month vol has exploded
tonight from 5.6% before the fixing to 9% Not a single price or trade
for USD/KRW either...complete short-circuit in Asia. There was plenty
of warning for this one...#chinesecurrencyandbankingcollapse #hk"

*2019-8-5 23:9:31*

---

"@Jkylebass

Beijing is prepping for a massacre in Hong Kong"

*2019-8-5 23:7:33*

---

Right; ppl assign equal weight to relativity and QM and try to marry
both, but out of the two, it is QM that is flawed.

"I believe that we have not yet succeeded in unifying quantum theory
with gravity and spacetime (which is what we mean by quantizing
gravity), or in unifying the interactions, because we have been
working with an incomplete and incorrect quantum theory." --Smolin

*2019-8-5 22:52:10*

---

I talked abt "Deep Shit kept at minimum, but intertwined with a
concise math model". But.. but.. what about Alpha Go Zero? That
demonstrates my point. The MCTS math used in AG0 is just as important
as the NN machinery. You could also make the case that AG0 is an
evolutionary algo bcz it plays against itself while training which
favors certain traits above others. If any other approach uses
evolutionary methods to this degree we'd say Genetic! Evolution! With
AG0 we say Deep Shit!

*2019-8-5 22:22:20*

---

"South Korea: Work Begins on World’s Largest Hydrogen Fuel Cell Power Plant--The 50 megawatt (MW) class secondary #hydrogen #fuelcell power plant, the largest in the world, is situated at Seosan, South Chungcheong Province"

*2019-8-5 20:17:36*

---

"@AssaadRazzouk

Now Japan is in killer heatwave with 35°C+ at 100 locations"

*2019-8-5 20:14:6*

---

Kaboom. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">This visible shock wave provides an indication of the power of explosions at <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russia?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Russia</a> munitions depot near Kamenka, Siberia <a href="https://t.co/yedJmZAZBH">https://t.co/yedJmZAZBH</a> <a href="https://t.co/K5AXCeaSRT">pic.twitter.com/K5AXCeaSRT</a></p>&mdash; Joseph Dempsey (@JosephHDempsey) <a href="https://twitter.com/JosephHDempsey/status/1158401140645650433?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-5 20:10:58*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Tough summer for the power grid but the microgrids are working - the microgrid uses on-site solar, a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/FuelcellNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#FuelcellNow</a>, battery storage, microturbine and natural gas generator <a href="https://t.co/LWyUuob9tC">https://t.co/LWyUuob9tC</a>.</p>&mdash; IEA Hydrogen (@IEA_Hydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/IEA_Hydrogen/status/1158413880911159299?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-5 19:49:34*

---

True; but did we make it perhaps because of that scare?

"Oh but that's just like the nuclear scare of the post 60s"

*2019-8-5 16:5:24*

---

Too bad I might actually be alive to see it

"Human civilisation as we know it may have already entered its last
decades, a worrying new report examining the likely future of our
planet’s habitability warns.

The increasingly disastrous impacts of the climate crisis, coupled
with inaction to tackle it are sending our planet down a bleak path
towards an increasingly chaotic world which could overwhelm societies
around the globe, the report’s authors contend.

The paper, produced by the Melbourne-based think tank the Breakthrough
National Centre for Climate Restoration, is presented by the former
chief of the Australian Defence Forces and retired Royal Australian
Navy Admiral Chris Barrie."

*2019-8-5 16:4:50*

---

"@Jkylebass

If the chinese stop propping up their currency, it will devalue more than 40%"

*2019-8-5 15:57:12*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">GAMETIME - CNH collapsing...HKD won’t be far behind. Mass Exodus of capital out of CNH and HKD. This collapse has just begun. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/china?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#china</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hk?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hk</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/bankingandcurrencycollapse?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#bankingandcurrencycollapse</a> <a href="https://t.co/MQ8jpnSeQb">pic.twitter.com/MQ8jpnSeQb</a></p>&mdash; Kyle Bass (@Jkylebass) <a href="https://twitter.com/Jkylebass/status/1158191251499429889?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-5 15:54:12*

---

Forget all that multiverse, time travel bullshit; We need to do
infrastructure, like those O'Neill stations Bezos talks about. There
is some fascinating science, engineering that can be done without
going cuckoo.

*2019-8-5 14:0:1*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">If you to want see some of the math, try <a href="https://twitter.com/dbressoud?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@dbressoud</a> “A radical approach to real analysis” and Dunham, “the calculus gallery”. For history, try <a href="https://t.co/QBEcXN6HDr">https://t.co/QBEcXN6HDr</a></p>&mdash; Steven Strogatz (@stevenstrogatz) <a href="https://twitter.com/stevenstrogatz/status/1158314296822157314?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-5 13:35:4*

---

No. If the overall body politic decides something, decides on change,
nothing can stand in its way. 

"Oh but NRA is so powerful, they block all change"

*2019-8-5 13:23:19*

---

Guns, abortion, etc. These are issues Reps need to remain intractable
on in order to emphasize their difference from the "other party" who
keeps trying to be [like them](../../2018/05/polarization.md).

Stop whining centrist Democrat. The blood is still on your hands.

\#gunviolence

*2019-8-5 13:23:19*

---

The Nordics apparently are more connected to our hunter-gatherer
past. Sadly some other cultures' traditions revolve around losing
virginity to a goat. 

"[There is a] Dutch scouting tradition known as a “dropping”, in which
groups of children, generally preteenagers, are deposited in a forest
and expected to find their way back to base. It is meant to be
challenging, and they often stagger in at 2 or 3 in the morning."

[Link](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/dutch-tradition-night-woods-forest-dropping-kids-children-scouting-a9026671.html)

*2019-8-5 11:9:25*

---

Real-estate bubble, stock market bubble, String Theory, Tesla -
all bubbles, results of a delusional system awarding delusions.

*2019-8-4 14:52:27*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Elon Musk&#39;s Boring Company has gone from &quot;futuristic self-driving electric skate&quot; to &quot;self-driving Tesla in a special tunnel&quot; to &quot;human-operated Tesla in a regular tunnel.&quot; Congrats to Elon for inventing an ineffective technology that already exists! <a href="https://t.co/NBb5Xh04I3">https://t.co/NBb5Xh04I3</a></p>&mdash; Adam Conover (@adamconover) <a href="https://twitter.com/adamconover/status/1157741890092974080?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 3, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-4 14:51:9*

---

Smolin usually refers to Leibniz as a philisopher but readers need to
keep in mind, Leibniz is also the co-inventor of Calculus. In fact his
notation of Calculus turned out to be more persistent than the
Newtonian notation.

*2019-8-4 13:24:30*

---

"Only dead fish swim with the stream"

-- Malcolm Muggeridge

*2019-8-4 13:12:19*

---

"Engineers at Lehigh University are the first to utilize a single
enzyme biomineralization process to create a catalyst that uses the
energy of captured sunlight to split water molecules to produce
hydrogen. The synthesis process is performed at room temperature and
under ambient pressure"

[Link](https://fuelcellsworks.com/news/engineers-at-lehigh-university-create-promising-new-solar-powered-path-to-hydrogen-fuel-production/)

*2019-8-3 18:12:47*

---

"@Lecocq_dom

"While conventional electric car sales are starting to boom, behind
the scenes many manufacturers are quietly working away on another way
of running a car – #hydrogen fuel-cell technology""

*2019-8-3 16:27:41*

---

"Federal Minister of Economics Altmaier wants to present a concept by
the end of August in order to replace natural gas in traffic, in
industry and in buildings with 'green' gases."

*2019-8-3 14:0:35*

---

"@ddayen

I love that the first thing Delaney can think of to describe the
horror of socialist America is "free vacations."

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/ddayen/status/1157350461021626368)

*2019-8-3 13:52:0*

---

<img width="400" src="https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/tweets/2019/clarkson_musk.png"/>

One of these guys really [knows](https://www.alphr.com/cars/1002996/jeremy-clarkson-thinks-hydrogen-fuel-is-the-future-of-cars) cars, the other doesn't. Guess which is which.

(Hint: Clarkson is the former host of the most popular car show, ever)

*2019-8-3 13:51:46*

---

Monkey boy tries so hard to have some of that space biz cool to rub
off on the shit show that is Tesla, but I dont think it is working.

*2019-8-3 13:49:46*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">hmmm wonder who&#39;s best positioned to beat Trump <a href="https://t.co/PUdlBkJ8TW">pic.twitter.com/PUdlBkJ8TW</a></p>&mdash; Luke Savage (@LukewSavage) <a href="https://twitter.com/LukewSavage/status/1157326265764012032?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 2, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-3 13:44:51*

---

Dirty coal to clean H2. Exciting!

I keep saying the best place to do carbon capture is in the beginning
of the energy cycle. This is the only fossil I can tolerate.

How abt fracking into H2? No. Bcz the fracking process itself has
polluting side-effects.

"Japan and Australia have taken their first steps to create new export
industry which will convert the world’s most polluting fuel, coal,
into its cleanest, hydrogen, and ship it in liquefied form from
Australia to Japan.

The $350 million experiment is based on a vast reserve of low-grade
coal in Victoria, which was for decades the southern state’s major
source of electricity, until most of the power plants were closed
because of the pollution they generated".

[Link](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timtreadgold/2019/07/24/japan-and-australia-launch-an-experimental-coal-to-hydrogen-export-industry/amp/?__twitter_impression=true)


*2019-8-3 13:11:17*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Season 2? 🤣🤷🏼‍♀️ ⁦<a href="https://twitter.com/netflix?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@netflix</a>⁩ <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/AnotherLife?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#AnotherLife</a> <a href="https://t.co/Q8XteS5BWD">https://t.co/Q8XteS5BWD</a></p>&mdash; Katee Sackhoff (@kateesackhoff) <a href="https://twitter.com/kateesackhoff/status/1157480816689086465?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 3, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-3 12:53:16*

---

"German Ministry of Economics is in preparation of a hydrogen strategy for Germany to be communicated in October 2019" 

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/H2FCEV/status/1157315597614690307)

*2019-8-3 12:31:2*

---

That's so true about adapting to new work.

[Video](https://youtu.be/DdZstDDFJUA?t=105)

But politicians love to blame the people for their problems too, like
somehow they didnt work hard enough, werent smart with their choices.

For some reason this reminds me of the T. Carlson
[line](https://youtu.be/AXGoWtK1NnY?t=1910) abt politicians lying.

*2019-8-2 16:50:6*

---

[thumbs up]  

\#theexpanse

[Video](https://youtu.be/R0UzvObOhFM)

*2019-8-2 16:46:15*

---

[facepalm] Just saw paper "Path optimization for marine vehicles in
ocean currents using reinforcement learning". "AI" bitches everywhere.

*2019-8-2 15:46:36*

---

There is someone who did research on flattest path calculation for
ground terrain using analytical math, dude is Swedish.

*2019-8-2 15:51:58*

---


I should have known to look for flattest path solution in marine
literature. The problem is probably nearly identical to "ship
traveling in minimal time through water currents in the sea" problem,
as in fighting currents = fighting uphill elevation. For the West
(therefore modern science) this would be more pressing problem to
think abt.

*2019-8-2 15:41:58*

---

"In Europe there are negative interest rates on government and some
corporate debt, which pays for redundant bureaucracies and favoured
zombie industries.

In the US there are negative gas prices in an area of Texas the size
of a European country. The producers will pay you to take away their
pipeline-grade gas. If that ploy fails, they flare it in fires so
large they can be seen from space. [..]

Oil and gas is a faith-based industry.

During the past few years that faith has been well rewarded in the
Permian Basin of Texas. Gas produced there is processed and sold at
Waha, where pipelines take it to the huge hub and market in Cushing
near Oklahoma City, or to petrochemical plants and liquefied gas
export terminals on the coast of Texas and Louisiana [..].

Why would E&P companies produce gas for a negative revenue? The answer
would be that they can sell the oil, as well as the associated natural
gas liquids, for actual cash, though at a transportation discount.

As for the gas, it can be cheaper for them to place a vertical pipe
near their wells and set it on fire. This flaring is legal for a few
days after a well is discovered, or when there is an equipment failure
but it is frowned upon by the Railroad Commission of Texas (RRC), the
state regulator.

Yet no flaring application has been turned down by the RRC for at
least a couple of years. This annoys environmentally minded Texans,
who allege that satellite photos show twice as much flaring as
publicly declared".

[Link](https://www.ft.com/content/ff4d72e9-65b6-3466-9002-f8b561191dde)

*2019-8-2 15:20:18*

---

"@scottderrickson

Hayao Miyazaki motherfucker

>@realJacobAirey

>Only one "visionary" director exists today. His name is Christopher Nolan
"

*2019-8-2 12:39:48*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;Vacation. You&#39;ve just invented vacation.&quot; <a href="https://t.co/j4wn4QM4yo">https://t.co/j4wn4QM4yo</a></p>&mdash; Mike Davidson (@mikeindustries) <a href="https://twitter.com/mikeindustries/status/1156713768027471872?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 31, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Related: [Reinventing the train](https://twitter.com/gin_and_tacos/status/1082434944582979586)


*2019-8-2 11:4:6*

---

"From government officials to utilities and power grid operators, hydrogen is being touted as a cleaner way to break Germany’s dependence on coal. In the past three weeks, the Economy Ministry unveiled 20 labs to research the fuel, and natural gas pipeline owners asked for rules that would allow them to carry more of the lightest element."

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-08-02/germany-turns-to-hydrogen-in-quest-for-clean-energy-economy)

*2019-8-2 10:48:22*

---

@Simon_Barrett

"I want to do a Godzilla movie where Godzilla just keeps trying to kill one specific person, who it turns out closely resembles a random guy he saw throw a six pack ring in the ocean 60 years ago".

*2019-8-1 19:57:30*

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The wildfires in Russia have now spread to about three million hectares (7.4 million acres) - an area roughly the size of Belgium<a href="https://t.co/3V75QTTNO1">https://t.co/3V75QTTNO1</a> <a href="https://t.co/1T8PRXl770">pic.twitter.com/1T8PRXl770</a></p>&mdash; BBC News (World) (@BBCWorld) <a href="https://twitter.com/BBCWorld/status/1156956946018328578?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 1, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

*2019-8-1 19:55:9*

---

@CodeWisdom

"Software being "Done" is like lawn being 'Mowed'." - Jim Benson

*2019-8-1 16:53:57*

---
