# Tweets - Week 35


It's all about the G. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The value of g and its effect on Earth, Moon and Mars [bonus: Dave Scott Apollo 15 hammer &amp; feather experiment] <a href="https://t.co/UE2ZwDM6Dc">https://t.co/UE2ZwDM6Dc</a> [source of the gif: <a href="https://t.co/YvcXzrJKLZ">https://t.co/YvcXzrJKLZ</a>] <a href="https://t.co/uORCFi7nEn">pic.twitter.com/uORCFi7nEn</a></p>&mdash; Massimo (@Rainmaker1973) <a href="https://twitter.com/Rainmaker1973/status/1166953712952197121?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

[It's true](https://www.quandl.com/data/MULTPL/SHILLER_PE_RATIO_MONTH-Shiller-PE-Ratio-by-Month). 

"The US stock market is heavily overvalued, as bad or worse than 1929 ... (according to Shiller's CAPE)" 

---

"@Jkylebass

CH PLA troops move into Hong Kong at 4am and call it a ‚Äònormal rotation‚Äô. Funny, cameras didn‚Äôt pick up the troops that ‚Äòrotated‚Äô out."

---

Wut?

"This story is a real bombshell.  Reporter Ryan Grim reveals that one of the biggest culprits of Amazon destruction is a US company, Blackstone, whose CEO is close friends with Trump and bankrolls the US Senate leader Republican Mitch McConnell"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/jasonhickel/status/1166613332914315265)

---

Dems quitting are probably leaving to save themselves the humiliation
of being left out of the debates.

"JUST IN: New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand drops out of 2020 presidential race"

---

&#128566;

"@prospect_clark

- parliament suspended to curtail its discussion of pressing emergency 

- No 10 saying ‚Äúif we lose confidence vote, we won‚Äôt resign‚Äù"

---

üòÇüòÇüòÇüòÇüò•üò•üò•üòû


"@JohnWight1

Scottish court could rule Queen broke law by agreeing to suspend Parliament"

---

"Two-thirds of Americans do not even participate in or have access to a 401(k) plan"

[Link](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/americas-super-wealthy-own-more-stocks-leaving-average-people-in-the-dust-2019-01-28)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Quite a claim! <a href="https://t.co/0TiJkTlDbl">https://t.co/0TiJkTlDbl</a></p>&mdash; Renegade Inc. (@Renegade_Inc) <a href="https://twitter.com/Renegade_Inc/status/1166729678247346177?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

*Angel Has Fallen* is anti-war, anti military-industrial complex. They
even had a version of Russiagate in the movie. Thumbs up.

---

Read [this](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2011/10/phd-graduate-studies.html) before joining a PhD program. 

---

True. Fixing ed is actually [really easy](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2018/09/public-education.html).

"@spenceraviav

The reason most education startups fail is because they think education is about learning when it‚Äôs really about signaling"

---

After MathJax transition instead of `make4ht` the new repo is 1/3 its previous size. Very awesome.

---

"Robert Bosch, the largest supplier of parts and technology to the
auto industry, recently announced it's betting big on fuel cells,
planning for mass scale production of a new FC design that will make
sense in affordable cars by 2022.

Hyundai just bet almost 7 billion dollars on FC cars. It's aiming to
produce half a million of them, including the new Hyundai Nexo SUV, by
the year 2030.

Audi just struck a deal to partner on FC technology with Hyundai. The
company's chairman, Bram Schot, recently said that Audi is redoubling
its focus on fuel cell with a production car out in 2021. It's
apparently doing so as the R&D lead for the entire VW group.

Mercedes is developing the FC GLC F-Cell"

[Link](https://www.cnet.com/google-amp/news/time-to-buy-fuel-cell-car/)


---

"A$15 million are being invested in a project that aims to create a
reliable system for storing excess energy produced by solar and wind
energy by converting it into H2. Australia‚Äôs government will be
providing half the funds for this venture, inspired by what has
already been achieved in Europe with the TSO 2020 project, which was
able to create a system with the capacity of storing 8.3 metric tonnes
of hydrogen in underground salt caverns in Holland"

[Link](https://www.azocleantech.com/amp/article.aspx?ArticleID=942&ArticleID=942)

---

"@AWeigmannn 

Emil Rangelov, CEO of Glasgow-based HV Systems, yesterday showed off a
prototype of the first \#hydrogen-powered van to be built in the UK ‚Äì
and orders are already coming in"

[Link](https://twitter.com/AWeigmannn/status/1166664275169107969)

---

\#UBI The trick is knowing the difference between new money and
existing money, this is one part of economics that is still valid. If
you do not print new money existence you cannot create inflation. They
can't sell me Coke for 1000 dollars because now they __know__ I have
1000 dollars in my pocket. Coke still has to compete against Pepsi,
Dr. Pepper. Gatorade? What else was there.. Zima?

---

Thank God for diversity of tech solutions; needed a BVP package, with
better doc, open source, and R `bvpSolve` was there. Buttf--d Matlab
can kiss my ass.

BTW, these ML ppl are like drug pushers, through various licensing
schemes they coopted unis, who teach through their tool, as a result
web is full of examples in this closed source poop. The software is
worse than opioids.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Italy üáÆüáπ is too big to fail and yet too big to be saved (at over ‚Ç¨4 trillion of debt).It‚Äôs the first of its kind globally that doesn‚Äôt have its own central bank to buy its bonds at will. This identity will likely cause another euro zone crisis in the next few years. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/italy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#italy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/tbtf?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#tbtf</a></p>&mdash; Kyle Bass (@Jkylebass) <a href="https://twitter.com/Jkylebass/status/1166651336382996480?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@AndrewCuomo forked over $1 BILLION to a private business that led to
@ElonMusk's giant scam and Cuomo's bid-rigging that landed his inner
circle in prison"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/NewYorkGOP/status/1166396305469517829)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Please welcome the World&#39;s largest <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> plane that doesn&#39;t require any fossil fuels by ZeroAvia.<br><br>Batteries are too heavy for liftoff. The lightweight and high energy density of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> will not only liftoff, but provide 500 miles of range. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/88dvF5QlEw">https://t.co/88dvF5QlEw</a> <a href="https://t.co/qmH4W16xkN">pic.twitter.com/qmH4W16xkN</a></p>&mdash; H2 &amp; Fuel Cell News (@H2NewsGlobal) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2NewsGlobal/status/1161645447427108867?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 14, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Beautiful yet terrifying - Hawaii <a href="https://t.co/EVxfDpCFDv">pic.twitter.com/EVxfDpCFDv</a></p>&mdash; Physics &amp; Astronomy Zone (@ZonePhysics) <a href="https://twitter.com/ZonePhysics/status/1165353164511633413?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 24, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Oreos yes. I never tried Ding Dong. I hear they are good.

---

`git push --force --set-upstream origin master`

MMMmmmm HHHhhmmm

I highly recommend it. It overwrites everyhing :-|. Spring cleaning
(for personal repos obv, if not care abt the commit log).

---

I have to do everything from scratch. It's a curse. I even rewrote the
f--ng `rsync` for my needs, as in syncing one dir with another
dir. 

---

"@MarkGBblog

There's $15tn of negative yielding bonds (debt) in
circulation. Clearly the motive for buying is not to produce income or
hold to maturity; the motive is to sell at a profit as rates go even
lower - to 'flip'. You don't need a PhD to guess what happens when the
herd gets spooked"

---

When will anyone do a
[ROM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rom_(comics)) movie? It could be
done in a very space-opera-ish way.

---

Going over all work is good opportunity to fix weird errors hidden
(forgotten) in it.

---

Running for Prez in your 30s? C'mon. That alone communicates to me you
don't know what you don't know, a bigger sin in my eyes than not
knowing itself. See you in 20 years. 

---

Fake News!

I kid NYT... There is nothing wrong with a little excitement, but the
history if this stuff is full of hyperbole like this.

"@vardi

Frank Rosenblatt invented the Perceptron, a single-layer neural net,
in 1958. NYT reported 'the embryo of an electronic computer that [the
Navy] expects will be able to walk, talk, see, write, reproduce itself
and be conscious of its existence.'"

---

"@zomgapocalypse

'I have driven my SR+ model 3 for just over 3k miles now and during my
last two supercharging sessions, my range has gone from 240 to 223
miles at 100% charge.'

$TSLA #TeslaRangeIssues"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">economists don&#39;t receive The Nobel Prize, precisely bc economy is no science. They get a paid-for-by-a-bank Nobel Memorial Prize or somesuch name. The Mont Pelerin Society craved the prestigious prize to better spread their inhumane ideology of lawless greed &amp;invented the mockup.</p>&mdash; anlomedad (@anlomedad) <a href="https://twitter.com/anlomedad/status/1166035099869155328?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 26, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Maybe instead we should just tell our undergrads to go into energy-useful fields like chem-e, nuclear physics, materials science, solid-state physics, and the like. The brain isn&#39;t going to be solved in the next 50 years so maybe there should be zero neuro until climate is fixed.</p>&mdash; Eric Jonas (@stochastician) <a href="https://twitter.com/stochastician/status/1166024077364080642?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 26, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Background independence is key. Cop QM is defective for that reason too, they always assume a coordinate system. 

---

Bell's Inequality is violated, but that does not disprove realism, yes. Local realism might not be there, but "another type of realism" could be active behind the scenes. Particles can be connected through another structure apart from observable space (such as a graph structure), whose reflection is space (this is the ensemble approach). 

No need for Einstein-Rose expl IMO, a weird add-on, ornament on top of
space-first view.

Many-Worlds - Barf.

[Vid](https://youtu.be/tafGL02EUOA?t=527)

---

Owww is this another high profile endorsement for virtual currs? Me so
happy.

Nah. What he's talking abt is more along the lines of SDR, an IMF
project backed by gold (= really stupid idea) in virtual form. Maybe
he is angling for an IMF job, who knows, his name is being floated for
the top job... But with bad ideas like that I can definitely say he is
the wrong man for it. Or maybe the right man for the wrong job. Who
knows?

Dum-dum dum-dum, dum-dum dum-dum (guy in *Mission Impossible* is an
agent of IMF, no?)

Da-da daaaaa

Da-da daaaaa

Dum-dum dum-dum, dum-dum dum-dum 

"Mark Carney: dollar is too dominant and could be replaced by digital currency"

---

Fantastic! 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Scientists at Manchester University have invented a graphene sieve that turns salt water into filtrated drinking water. <br><br>This ground breaking innovation could help to provide safe drinking water for millions of people. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/tech?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#tech</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/innovation?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#innovation</a><a href="https://t.co/pRio7cB2x1">pic.twitter.com/pRio7cB2x1</a></p>&mdash; James Melville (@JamesMelville) <a href="https://twitter.com/JamesMelville/status/1165511813485776897?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@chr1sa

For everyone re-reading *Sapiens*, consider also re-reading
@michaelpollan 's brilliant *Botany of Desire*, which is the perfect
compliment.

How plants domesticated *us* by finding our pleasure centers (sweet,
intoxicating, etc) and addicting us to them"

---

"@paulg

The mistakes that inexperienced founders make have a lot in common
with those that inexperienced writers make. They go about things in an
overcomplicated way, because the obvious, simple approach doesn't seem
'serious' enough"

---

"[Economist] Lucas insisted that to be valid, a macroeconomic model
had to be derived from the microeconomic theory of the behaviour of
utility-maximizing consumers and profit-maximizing firms.

In fact, Lucas‚Äôs methodological precept‚Äîthat macro level phenomena can
and in fact must be derived from micro-level foundations‚Äîhad been
invalidated before he stated it. As long ago as 1953 (Gorman, 1953),
mathematical economists posed the question of whether what
microeconomic theory predicted about the behaviour of an isolated
consumer applied at the level of the market. They concluded,
reluctantly, that it did not:

>market demand functions need not satisfy in any way the classical
restrictions which characterize consumer demand functions‚Ä¶ The
importance of the above results is clear: strong restrictions are
needed in order to justify the hypothesis that a market demand
function has the characteristics of a consumer demand function. Only
in special cases can an economy be expected to act as an ‚Äòidealized
consumer‚Äô. The utility hypothesis tells us nothing about market demand
unless it is augmented by additional requirements.‚Äô ...

What they showed was that if you took two or more consumers with
different tastes and different income sources, consuming two or more
goods whose relative consumption levels changed as incomes rose
(because some goods are luxuries and others are necessities), then the
resulting market demand curves could have almost any shape at
all. They didn‚Äôt have to slope downwards, as economics textbooks
asserted they did."

[Link](https://evonomics.com/why-economists-have-to-embrace-complexity-steve-keen/)

---

Alan Kirman explains why we cannot understand an ant hill by
considering a representative ant [a dig into economists and their
"micro" approach].

[Vid](https://youtu.be/HYucuJJY7EQ)

---

\#walsh

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">It says something about our time, that the man who endorsed on Who Is America arming 4 year olds with machine guns, mortars and grenades, is now pitching himself as the sensible alternative to Trump - and not a single person can dispute it.</p>&mdash; Sacha Baron Cohen (@SachaBaronCohen) <a href="https://twitter.com/SachaBaronCohen/status/1165827032309092357?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 26, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Game changer. Go Canada. Tech is being checked out for industr scale (in DE).

"'Low-cost hydrogen from oil fields with no emissions can power the
whole world using mostly existing infrastructure,' Grant Stem, CEO of
Proton Technologies, which is commercialising the extraction method,
told AFP. 'This is the silver bullet for clean energy and clean
climate'"

[Link](https://www.engadget.com/amp/2019/08/21/researchers-discover-climate-friendly-way-of-extracting-hydrogen/)

---

"Perhaps the starkest measure of the failure of our economic policies
is that the average American‚Äôs life expectancy is in decline, as
inequalities of wealth have become inequalities of health"

[Link](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/24/opinion/sunday/economics-milton-friedman.html)

Appelbaum, NYT

---


This was one of my email alerts during college

[Link](https://youtu.be/pLZKG5i_ySg)

---

The first all-renewable energy vessel to reach the Arctic is based on guess-what.

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/Lecocq_dom/status/1165663890996375552)

---

One for all, all for one ‚öîÔ∏è

"@thehill

EU says it will 'respond in kind' if US slaps tariffs on France"

---

 üòÇüòÇüòÜüññ

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I once found the inverse of a 50x50 matrix by hand! Fortunately, it was an orthogonal matrix.</p>&mdash; math prof (@mathematicsprof) <a href="https://twitter.com/mathematicsprof/status/1165701176156930050?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

It weighs 29 kilos! \#ebike

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/ENGIE_CofelyFR/status/1165633805526474752)

---

Just when CH is doing some good stuff on energy, they'll go belly up..
Are US trade requests so obscene?  What were in those 45 pages that
were rejected in the 150 page doc? Noone f--ing knows... What the f--k
is going on?

---

"@Metaconab

China's coal capital transforming into H2 hub" 

[Link](http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2019-08/25/c_138336923.htm#0-twi-1-12066-7250227817ecdff034dc9540e6c76667)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">There is no trade war with China without U.S dollars.<br>I guess Xi hasn&#39;t figured that out yet? <a href="https://t.co/dEXurMqRy4">https://t.co/dEXurMqRy4</a></p>&mdash; Dan Celia (@financialissues) <a href="https://twitter.com/financialissues/status/1165610111362129920?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Systems can't function around "people imploring eachother for the
right behaviour". The incentives need to accomplish that.
[Bancor](https://muratk3n.github.io/thirdwave/en/2019/06/bancor.html),
could achive this, deficits and surpluses would be taken care of
within the Bancor system. "The right thing" would emerge from those
rules.

"There is skewed distribution of exports gains throughout Europe, so
shouldn't Germany spend (so other countries lacking in surplus could
benefit)? More thought leaders should ask them, urge them to spend"

---

Crisis' are all about debt, and credit (=money) creation for wrong
purposes. To handle the aftermath, a rightist gov can cancel portion
of private / comp debt. A leftist gov can let over-levered companies
crash (in many ways letting nature to take its course), cancel citizen
debt if there is a build-up there, increase public spending as a
social service.

"How do we deal with crisis then?"

---

"@PACBI

Israeli authorities:

- raided a family football tournament in occupied East Jerusalem;

- denied permits for almost every single player of the winning Gaza
  League team to travel to the occupied West Bank for the Palestine
  Cup.

@FIFAcom remains silent"

---

"@zerohedge

Stormy Weather In Solarville: Amazon Joins Walmart In Saying Its Tesla
Solar Panels Spontaneously Ignited"

---

That can now be interpreted as doing public works while in crisis and
giving people money, as in social help (spending does not stimulate
the economy).

The comment is oft quoted, but most don't seem to know what followed
it; Keynes lived in an modern enough era with widely available media,
and he was good at stirring shit up. After that comment which would
surely trigger a response, they would ask him 'but why dig up holes,
why not build schools?'. And he would say 'well fine then, let's build
schools' &#128521;

"But Keynes said during crisis we can pay people dig up holes then
fill them up"

---

This is patently false. The industrial production advantage does not
come from 'division of labor', it comes from plugging replaceable,
nearly worhless labor into an existing assembly process which is the
true advantage, the brain, the core of the production.

You can't take any ol' task, divide it up among people, and gain a
huge advantage. But a factory through a mechanized processes (into
which people contribute somewhat) create asymmetric results. The
assembly line *moves*, processes, ppl work on that line. 

BTW this division of labor non-sense comes from Adam Smith, who knew
nothing, essentially repeating what al-Ghazali said a thousand years
ago who was dumber still. An "economist" needs to ask himself, 'why am
I __still__ repeating this shit?'

"But the advantage of industrial production lies in division of labor"

---

We could see more automation if it wasn't for outsourcing. From a
certain angle, and a certain labor price, outsourcing to a (especially
dictatorial) country is easier. But if that's removed from the
equation, then automation will soldier on.

"[Story from 2016] Greg Hayes, the CEO of United Technologies, the
parent company of the heating and air-conditioner manufacturer
Carrier, just let slip a consequence of a deal struck to keep jobs in
Indiana [..].

Carrier said last month that it would keep more than 1,000 jobs across
two locations in Indiana, following pressure from President-elect
Donald Trump. The decision was touted as a win for the incoming
president, who had pledged keep the jobs from moving to Mexico.

The result of keeping the plant in Indiana open is a $16 million
investment to drive down the cost of production, so as to reduce the
cost gap with operating in Mexico.

What does that mean? Automation. What does that mean? Fewer jobs,
Hayes acknowledged".

[Link](https://www.businessinsider.com/united-tech-ceo-says-trump-deal-will-lead-to-more-automation-fewer-jobs-2016-12)

---

Why control when you can simply replace? That's why this guy keeps
faceplanting, his core assumptions are rotten.

Even during industrial era the machines made ppl replaceable. People
unionized to offset that but that scheme ran into trouble with
automation, outsourcing. You can battle the latter but not the former
effectively (remember Carrier?). 

"The fundamental point that Karl Marx made in Capital, is that the
labour power of human beings is the one unique commodity that
capitalism cannot control"

[Link](https://renegadeinc.com/the-commodification-of-everything/)

---

It is very easy for the banks to track that. They could tell if money
is given to your dog walker if they wanted to.

"How would you control bank credit reaches the 'correct' destination?
[for productive purposes not speculation]"

---

Debt Zombies \#keen

[Link](https://youtu.be/qk_17ewZzow)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Protestors in Hong Kong are cutting down facial recognition towers. <a href="https://t.co/bTvb8uis7V">pic.twitter.com/bTvb8uis7V</a></p>&mdash; Jordan Sather (@Jordan_Sather_) <a href="https://twitter.com/Jordan_Sather_/status/1165327628825284610?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 24, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Oil giants Shell and BP are planning for global temperatures to rise
as much as 5¬∞C by the middle of the century...

The discrepancy demonstrates that the companies are keeping
shareholders in the dark about the risks posed to their businesses by
climate change"

[Link](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/bp-shell-oil-global-warming-5-degree-paris-climate-agreement-fossil-fuels-temperature-rise-a8022511.html)

---

"@Gary_Bainbridge

My rent has just been increased, according to correspondence, because the value of the property in which I live has increased. If I'm reading this correctly, I now have to give my landlord more money because he has more money."

---

Marx's problem wasn't related to mathematics, he was hampered by the
fact that he was a dingbat. Using mathematics doesn't automatically
confer anyone magical analysis powers. You can use it well, or badly. 

"Marx used math and he was wrong. How can u defend math in econ?"

---

Israel worried abt Jews becoming a minority in a one-state solution?
Dont include Gaza, hand it over to Egypt. Everywhere else, one-state solution.

---

"@zerohedge

'LOWE SAYS POLITICAL SHOCKS ARE TURNING INTO ECONOMIC SHOCKS'

You mean the same way it always was before central banks stepped in to
eliminate all shocks?"

---

Heh. Hopefully u dont run out of dollars first.

"China [is] determined to fight back ‚Äúuntil the end‚Äù"

---

Judging the kinds of sci was being done post 70s, it looks like the TR
nat firebrand Oktay S. was involved in "normal science". He talks a
big game in his books but what he's done is basically appyling the
Standard Model (mostly Cop QM) to different areas, such as molecular
biology, chemistry, he did not push further in the frontier on what's
been started in 1910. A fine scientist though... The Teller story came
from him.

---

"@tyillc

Biggest take away from Jackson Hole meeting: central banks are not now
nor were they ever a "magic box of economic remedies".  In fact,
central bank policies might come to be thought of more as the medieval
practice of "blood letting"."

---

People outside of historically mafia lands cannot even comprehend the
tyrannical dingbatness of these places. Here is an example: when they
asked Mussolini how he defined fascism this is what he said: "fascism
is whatever's going through my mind at that point in time". Can u
*believe* that shite? This is beyond patriarchal, tautological
statement like parents use on their children, "why do I have to do
this?","because I tell you so". No this is not just that, there is a
spur-of-the-moment, flighty, sadistic side to it. Tyrants could be
tryannical at least based on some rules. Not this. It is *whatever*
going through my mind, *right there and then*.

---

A fossil older than Lucy was found; Anthropo Owen Lovejoy talks abt it here.

[Video](https://youtu.be/RzWNh9ZpOCw)

Paper

[Link](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/326/5949/74)

Lovejoy saz we did not descend from chimps, we descended from
something already looking like human, chimps evolved from that too. We
became less violent. 

Darwin was wrong, not on the evolution process, but abt how he thought
that evolution took place (he had only a few fossils to work with). 

"She and her kin were slightly different from the other apes that
lived at the same time: there was something unusual about their hips
and legs that let them move in a novel way. These apes were beginning
their descent from the trees... Roughly 3.2 million years
later...[they] would dig up her fossilized bones [naming her Lucy]."
-- Phillips, *Humans*

---

Cons, centrists are really bad at categorization... You drive a car
and do you ever complain abt "free roads"? Or free policing? This is
infrastructure. Just like healthcare - it's people infrastructure.

\#dore

[Vid](https://youtu.be/BM8bboeKJPk?t=102)

---

Good expl on Palestinians.

[Vid](https://youtu.be/Q16jOV70Z3E?t=31)

\#beinart

---

Wut? VW wants to buy TSLAQ?

---

\#thebible \#trump

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/Mauerback/status/1164905721756078083)

---

Great &#128522; But a few questions: who is writing the screenplay?
Who is directing? &#128552;

"Ewan McGregor is on stage and YES he is reprising his role of Obi-Wan Kenobi"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/WendyLeeSzany/status/1165060301265362944)

---

Ave Ceasar

"All Italian professors in [US], including Enrico Fermi (with exception of 6
or so) pledged personal oath of allegiance to Il Duce"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/chaaosbook/status/1165099407488028673)

---

"The First Amendment is broad, robust, aggressively and consistently
protected by the Supreme Court, and not subject to the many exceptions
and qualifications that commentators seek to graft upon it. The
majority of contemptible, bigoted speech is protected." --The Atlantic

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/08/free-speech-cliches-media-should-stop-using/596506/)

---

"@justicedems

'Sanders plan distinguishes itself in how aggressively it targets the
fossil fuel industry. Not only does it call for hiking up taxes and
penalties on polluters, it taps the Justice Department to pursue
litigation against them'"

---

Gov fought in WWII, NASA went to the moon. Gov can produce energy.

"Sanders‚Äô plan [is] for the government to build, own and run the
terawatt or two of new wind and solar that is being planned, and to
take a much more active role in power markets"

[Link](https://pv-magazine-usa.com/2019/08/23/bernie-sanders-wants-to-nationalize-clean-energy/)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The number of fires in the Amazon has spiked to record levels. One for <a href="https://twitter.com/SoberLook?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@SoberLook</a> <a href="https://t.co/wkLsEMyHOM">https://t.co/wkLsEMyHOM</a> <a href="https://t.co/mv8xiTLA3s">pic.twitter.com/mv8xiTLA3s</a></p>&mdash; Adam Tooze (@adam_tooze) <a href="https://twitter.com/adam_tooze/status/1164493668104863744?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 22, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Why would DJT fire Powell? He needs to pin the slowdown on someone.

---

With slowing economy and DJT net approv around -12, that might also
explain the crowded Dem primary, cuz a Dem now has a chance of
winning. 2016 primary was empty, ppl were running scared (Bam
era). 2016 Republican primary was crowded bcz they knew they had a
chance.

--- 

Changed TW location setting so I dont see tigga trends

---

F---ing farmers

"Amid growing international criticism over the wildfires raging
through the Amazon, Brazilian President Bolsonaro admitted farmers
could be illegally setting the rainforest ablaze"

---

"@cassidoo

A wise QA dev once said, 'There is no I in team, but there is a u in bug'"

---

Why milenials are jaded. Interesting.. fallen heroes etc. The degree thing too.

[Link](https://personalitygrowth.com/why-millenials-are-so-jaded/)

---

\#starwars Continuing on the symbolism.. The Jedi are the early
Christians (aren't they referred to as a 'religious cult' in the
movie?'), Luke is Jesus. The emperor is the Roman emperor, which makes
Vader the pope. He represents centralized religion in the service of
the empire.. just as in Byzantium, the Otto gobble-gobble with its
ulema - the head "religion guy", sehulislam. All the same shit.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Powercell Reports Strong Second Quarter Result Following Agreement with Bosch--<a href="https://twitter.com/PowercellA?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@PowercellA</a> posts a record high operating income of 513,828 Thousand SEK--<a href="https://t.co/aznDagEStk">https://t.co/aznDagEStk</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcell?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcell</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrognnow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrognnow</a> <a href="https://t.co/V5YYNFd5B3">pic.twitter.com/V5YYNFd5B3</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1164512017543258116?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 22, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

So basically constants in physics are akin to coefficients in
statistics or weights in machine learning. In stats these can reach
tens, hundreds, in Deep ML models millions. Weights are set by looking
at the data, more adjustable knobs give you more freedom, but then the
model starts losing its expressiveness. They are a fudge essentially;
A neural-net even after training, is an incomprehensible mess; it just
"works", that is feed a new data point, it can answer based on
previous points (which effect the formation of the weights), but
that's all.

"SU(5) is the most elegant way imaginable of unifying quarks with
leptons, and it leads to a codification of the properties of the
standard model in simple terms. Even after twenty-five years, I still
find it stunning that SU(5) doesn't work. Not that it's hard for us
theorists to get around the current failure. You can just add a few
more symmetries and particles to the theory, so that there are more
constants to adjust. With more constants to adjust, you can then
arrange for the decay of the proton to be as rare as you like. So you
can easily make the theory safe from experimental failure."

---

"For all its usefulness, the standard model has a big problem: It has
a long list of adjustable constants. When we state the laws of the
theory, we must specify the values of these constants. As far as we
know, any values will do, because the theory is mathematically
consistent no matter which values we put in. These constants specify
the properties of the particles. Some tell us the masses of the quarks
and the leptons, while others tell us the strengths of the forces. We
have no idea why these numbers have the values they do,- we simply
determine them by experiments and then plug in the numbers. If you
think of the standard model as a calculator, then the constants will
be dials that can be set to whatever positions you like each time the
program is run.

There are about twenty such constants, and the fact that there are
that many freely specifiable constants in what is supposed to be a
fundamental theory is a tremendous embarrassment. Each one represents
some basic fact of which we are ignorant: namely, the physical reason
or mechanism responsible for setting the constant to its observed
value." --Smolin

---

Tooze on [focus group democracy](../../2019/08/focus-group-democracy.md). 

It can't be a coincidence that of the last 4 presidents, 3 were *I am
CRM* types who need to listen to others. Because the spirit of the
times, the *zeitgeist* is such that we live in this world of
unfiltered, prevalent, avalanche style communication, people who by
default shut it off do well, and when they allow it with reasonably
efficiency this is in their positive, so they perform a badly needed
filtering at the highest office. These people keep getting the top job
(the public must be sensing this subconciously).

But this is only a stop-gap measure. Sadly with institutional
filtering mechanisms gutted and burdened further due to corporate
interests, not only are policy makers in general flooded with input,
they also turn around to the public, perhaps exasperated by the
situation, and seemingly ask to do their job for them. After Obama
wins the election says "you are in charge" as if the people will
magically do the job for him.

Of course stirring excitement, and using that as leverage on lawmakers
can be useful, but that, again, takes leadership. The root of the
problem is a giant, gaping hole in the body politick that was removed,
creating the zombie state we are in today. 

Cross wave solution don't work; modern institutions are second wave;
concentrated, centralized, but now with the guts removed, some want to
add a "third wave paint" on it to make it shiny. Example: Obama
sitting in front of a chat room (they actually did this). This way
supposedly the President gets direct input from the public. But the
room is full of trolls, chaos, the receiving end is still the singular
executive - not a functioning solution. 

Until there is a complete new way of governance, I'd say remaining at
second wave for modern democracy might be better, with all the colors
in the political spectrum covered and represented fully.

---