# Ghazi Warfare

Mesquita, *The Origin and Prevention of Major Wars*

In practice, [Ottomans had] two kinds of war. The first was the war of
imperial campaigns, formally legitimized by the [..] state's chief
religious authority, the sheikh ul-Islam [Ottoman's version of the
Catholic Church, the reason for its existence was co-opting religion
for the empire, for plundering and mafia ..]. The second was the
perpetual war of raid and counter-raid along the borders of the
Ottoman Empire and its Christian neighbors. This type of conflict was
called ghazi warfare, from the term ghaza, a raid; it was the concrete
manifestation of the unceasing obligation of the faithful to expand
the boundaries of the darulislam. Ghazi was an honored title and the
legitimacy of the Osmanli regime derived largely from Ottoman success
as ghazis. The closest equivalent Christian concept is the crusade,
but crusades were efforts of limited duration mounted in pursuit of
discrete and clearly specified objectives, usually geographical. The
traditional numbering of crusades is indicative; the concept of a
first, second, or seventy-fifth ghaza would have been inconceivable to
a ghazi for the ghaza was unending. Although crusades are associated
with major field battles or brief sieges, ghazi warfare was a matter
of incessant raids, skirmishes, and prolonged blockades.

The emphasis placed on ghazi warfare by the Osmanli state was unusual
even by Islamic standards. This emphasis, a function of the absorption
of large numbers of semi-Islamized Turks and Mongols, reduced the
importance of the jihad. Although the practice of formally proclaiming
the jihad to justify war for a specific purpose was common in most
Islamic states, the Ottomans rarely went to the trouble. With a
stolid, matter-of-fact [manner], matched in the west only by the
Iberians, theyÂ  considered themselves always justified-and always at
war. [..]

Some of the Christian military groups along the frontiers with Islam
approached war in much the same way as the ghazi; the Knights of
St. John and Habsburg Croatian Grenzers are prominent examples, and
the generalization might be expanded to include Spanish and Portuguese
fighting men. These individuals viewed war in terms much like the
ghazis, but, unlike the ghazis, they functioned outside the mainstream
of their culture. The concept of perpetual war to [..] expand its
boundaries was inherently compatible with the Ottoman world view.














