# Deep Learning, General AI

[Answering the question "is deep learning overhyped?"] In many
respects, it is. For sure, the recent successes of deep learning have
been amazing: we went from being really terrible at supervised
learning on perceptual problems (image classification, speech
recognition) to being really good at it. Deep learning has been
transformative for many subfields of machine learning. But here's the
thing: lots of people, most of them not directly involved with deep
learning research, tend to extrapolate too much from these recent
successes. For instance, when we started achieving below 4% top-5
error on the ImageNet classification task, people started claiming
that we had "solved" computer vision. We most certainly haven't solved
computer vision at this point; it's still a tremendous challenge to
generate accurate, precise descriptions of the contents of a picture
or a video, or to get meaningful answers to basic visual queries
(e.g. "get me a close-up of the handbag of the second lady from the
left"), things that humans take for granted. Our successes, which
while significant are still very limited in scope, have fueled a
narrative about AI being almost solved, a narrative according to which
machines can now "understand" images or language. The reality is that
we are very, very far away from that.

In the pitches of startups that are attempting to cash in on deep
learning, I see a lot of grossly unrealistic expectations. Some of
them are just naively over-optimistic, but some others are essentially
living in a fictional universe â€”I've seen at least 3 different
startups state that they would solve "general artificial intelligence"
in the next few years. Best of luck to them. Most of these companies
have no issue getting generously funded, but quite a few of them will
find it very difficult to get a decent exit. A lot of disappointment
will follow, especially among VCs and corporate decision makers, and
unless this is counter-balanced by a larger wave of successful
value-producing applications of deep learning, then we might witness a
new AI winter in the future.

Overall: deep learning has made us really good at turning large
datasets of perceptual inputs (images, sounds, videos) and simple
human-annotated targets (e.g. the list of objects present in a
picture) into models that can automatically map the inputs to the
targets. That's great, and it has a ton a transformative practical
applications. But it's still the only thing we can do really
well. Let's not mistake this fairly narrow success in supervised
learning for having "solved" machine perception, or machine
intelligence in general. The things about intelligence that we don't
understand still massively outnumber the things that we do understand,
and while we are standing one step closer to general AI than we did
ten years ago, it's only by a small increment.






