# Bureucracy - Part I

Powershift, Alvin Toffler

Everyone hates a bureaucrat.

For a long time businessmen maintained the myth that bureaucracy was a
disease of government. Civil servants were called lazy, parasitic, and
surly, while business executives were pictured as dynamic, productive,
and eager to please the customer. Yet bureaucracy is just as rampant
in business as in the public sector. Indeed, many of the world's
largest corporations are as arthritic and arrogant as any Soviet
ministry. [..] Hardly a day passes without some new article, book, or
speech decrying the old top-down forms of pyramidal power.

Of course, no one expects bureaucratic organization to disappear. It
remains appropriate for some purposes. But it is now accepted that
companies will wither under competitive fire if they cling to the old
centralized bureaucratic structures that flourished during the
smokestack age.

The revolt against bureaucracy is, in fact, an attack on the dominant
form of smokestack power. It coincides with the transition to the
super-symbolic economy of the 21st century, and it explains why those
who create "post-bureaucratic" organizations are truly revolutionary,
whether they are in business, government, or the civil society.

Any bureaucracy has two key features, which can be called "cubbyholes"
and "channels." Because of this, everyday power—routine control—is in
the hands of two types of executive: specialists and managers.

Specialized executives gain their power from control of information in
the cubbyholes. Managers gain theirs through their control of
information flowing through the channels. It is this power system, the
backbone of bureaucracy, which is now coming under fire in large
companies everywhere.

We think of bureaucracy as a way of grouping people. But it is also a
way of grouping "facts." A firm neatly cut into departments according
to function, market, region, or product is after all a collection of
cubbyholes in which specialized information and personal experience
are stored. Engineering data go to the engineers; sales data to the
sales department.

Until the arrival of computers, this "cubbyholism" was the main way in
which knowledge was organized for wealth production. And the wondrous
beauty of the system was that, at first, it appeared to be endlessly
expandable. In theory, one could have an infinity of cubbyholes.

In practice, however, companies and governments are now discovering
that there are strict limits to this kind of specialization. The
limits first became apparent in the public sector as government
agencies grew to monstrous proportions, reaching a point of no
return. Listen, for example, to the lament of John F. Lehman, Jr., a
recent U.S. Navy Secretary.

In the Pentagon, Lehman confessed to his colleagues, so many
specialized cubbyhole-units had sprung up that it is "impossible for
me or anyone at this table to accurately describe. . . the system with
which, and within which, we must operate." As private companies grew
to gargantuan size they, too, began to smack up against the limits of
organizational specialization. Today, in company after company, the
cubbyhole system is crashing under its own weight. Nor is it just
bigness that makes it unworkable.

As we leave the industrial era behind, we are becoming a more diverse
society. The old smokestack economy serviced a mass society. The
super-symbolic economy services a de-massified society. Everything
from life styles and products to technologies and the media is growing
more heterogeneous. This new diversity brings with it more complexity,
which, in turn, means that businesses need more and more data,
information, and know-how to function. Thus, huge volumes of the stuff
are being crammed into more and more cubbyholes—multiplying them
beyond comprehension uinl stretching them to the bursting point.

Today's changes also come at a faster pace than bureaucracies can
handle. An uptick of the yen in Tokyo causes instantaneous purchases
and sales in Zurich or London. A televised press conference in Tehran
triggers an immediate reply in Washington. A politician's off-the-cuff
remark about taxes sends investors and accountants instantly scurrying
to reevaluate a takeover deal.

This speedup of change makes our knowledge—about technology, markets,
suppliers, distributors, currencies, interest rates, consumer
preferences, and all the other business variables-perishable.

A firm's entire inventory of data, skills, and knowledge is thus in a
constant state of decay and regeneration, turning over faster and
faster. In turn, this means that some of the old bins or cubbyholes
into which knowledge has been stuffed begin to break into
parts. Others are crammed to overload. Still others become useless as
the information in them becomes obsolete or irrelevant. The
relationships of all these departments, branches, or units to one
another constantly change too.

In short, the cubbyhole scheme designed for Year One becomes
inappropriate for Year Two. It is easy to reclassify or sort
information stored in a computer. Just copy a file into a new
directory. But try to change organizational cubbyholes! Since people
and budgets reflect the scheme, any attempt to redesign the structure
triggers explosive power struggles. The faster things change in the
outside world, therefore, the greater the stress placed on
bureaucracy's underlying framework and the more friction and
infighting.

The real trouble starts, however, when turbulence in the marketplace,
the economy, or society stirs up completely new kinds of problems or
opportunities for the firm- Suddenly decision-makers confront
situations for which no cubbyholed information exists. The more
accelerated the rate of change in business—and it is speeding up
daily—the more such one-of-a-kind situations crop up. [..]

When a real fluke arises—something that doesn't fit naturally into
anyone's informational bailiwick—the company's first instinct is to
ignore it. This ostrich response is what happened the first time
foreign cars began appearing in the United States. The earliest little
Opels and Citroen Deux Chevaux that turned up on American streets in
the late 1950s drew a shrug from Detroit's bureaucrats. Even w hen
floods of Volkswagens began to arrive, the giant bureaucratic auto
makers preferred not to think about the unthinkable. There were no
units inside their companies whose task was to fight foreign
competition, no cubbyholes loaded with the necessary information.

When bureaucracies are forced to deal with a problem that fits into no
one's existing cubbyhole, they behave in certain stereotyped
ways. After some initial fencing, someone inevitably suggests setting
up a new unit (with himself or herself at its head). This is instantly
recognized for what it could easily become: a budget-eating rival of
the older units. Nobody wants that, so a compromise is arrived
at. This compromise is that familiar bureaucratic "camelephant," the
interdepartmental committee or task force. Washington is filled with
them. So are big companies.

Combining the slow, lumbering gait of the elephant with the IQ of the
camel, this new unit is, in effect, yet another cubbyhole, only this
one is typically staffed by junior people, sent by their permanent
departments not so much to solve the problem as to make sure that the
new unit doesn't chip away at existing jurisdictions or budget
allocations.

Sometimes the new problem is such a hot potato that nobody wants to
deal with it. It is either dumped on someone young, inexperienced, and
luckless, or it becomes an orphan: another problem on its way to
becoming a crisis.

Faced by all this infighting, an exasperated CEO decides to "cut
through the red tape." He does this by appointing a "czar" who
theoretically will get the cooperation of all the relevant agencies,
branches, and departments. But, lacking the information needed to cope
with the problem, the czar, too, winds up depending on the
pre-existing cubbyhole system.

Next the CEO decides frontal assault on the bureaucrats below will do no good. So he or she tries another standard ploy, quietly assigning the problem to a "troubleshooter" on his or her personal staff, rather than waiting for the slow, resistant bureaucratic machine to act. This attempt to end-run the existing departments only further outrages them, at which point the offended units begin working diligently to assure staff failure.

Similar power games are played within each department, as its subunits
also jockey for control of money, people, and knowledge.[..] One might
think that infighting stops at moments of dire crisis. [..] For the
image of the "rational" bureaucracy is false. It is power, not reason,
that drives the classical pyramids that still litter the business
landscape.
