# Bureucracy - Part II

Powershift, Alvin Toffler

As change speeds up, th[e] "cubbyhole crisis" is deepened by a
parallel breakdown in the "channels" of communication.

Smart business people have always known that a company succeeds only
when its parts work together. If the sales force is terrific but
manufacturing can't deliver on time ... or if the ads are wonderful
but not tied to the right price policy ... if engineers have no sense
of what the marketers can sell ... if all the accountants do is count
beans and the lawyers just look at the law, without asking business
questions ... the firm cannot succeed.

But smart managers also know that people in one department or unit
seldom speak to their counterparts in another. In fact, this lack of
cross-communication is precisely what gives mid-rank managers their
power. Once more it is the control of information that counts.

Middle managers coordinate the work of several subordinate units,
collecting reports from the executive-specialists who run
them. Sometimes the manager receives information from one subordinate
and passes it back down to another, thus serving as a formal link
between cubbyholes. At other times he or she may pass information
laterally to the manager heading another group of units. But a middle
manager's main task is to collect the disparate information that the
specialists have cut into fragments and synthesize it before passing
it through channels to the next higher level in the power pyramid.

Put differently, in every bureaucracy, knowledge is broken apart
horizontally and put back together vertically.

The power structure based on control of information was clear,
therefore: While specialists controlled the cubbyholes, managers
controlled the channels.

This system worked marvelously when business moved slowly. Today,
change is so accelerated and the information needed is so complex that
the channels, too, exactly like the cubbyholes, are overwhelmed,
clogged with messages (many of them misrouted).

Because of this, more executives than ever are stepping outside
channels to circumvent the system, withholding information from their
bosses and peers, passing it sideways unofficially, communicating
through "back channels" operating on "dual tracks" (one formal, the
other not), adding fire and confusion to the internecine wars now
tearing up even the best-managed bureaucracies.

One overlooked reason why Japanese corporations have been better so
far in managing the breakdown of bureaucracy is the existence in them
of a backup system lacking in American and European firms.

While Western firms are dependent on cubbyholes and channels, Japanese
firms also have, overlaid on these, what is known as the dokikai
system. The dokikai system is a deviation from formal bureaucracy—but
one which makes it far more effective.

In a large Japanese firm all recruits hired at the same time—what
might be called an "entering class" or a "cohort"—maintain contact
with one another throughout their employment by the firm, rising up
the ranks as they grow more senior. After a time the members of the
dokikai are scattered through the various functions, regions, and
sections of the firm. Some have risen up the grades faster than
others.

But this fraternity, as it has been called, hangs out together,
socializing in the evenings, swilling much beer and sake, and— most
important—exchanging information from many different cubbyholes
outside the formal hierarchical channels.

It is through the dokikai that the "real" facts or "true" facts of a
situation are communicated, as distinct from the official party
line. It is in the dokikai that men, lubricated with alcohol, speak to
one another with honto —expressing their true feelings—rather than
with tatemae —saying what is expected.

Yet this is no longer sufficient for organizational survival, and even
this system is breaking down. Thus, companies race to build electronic
alternatives to the old bureaucratic communication systems, and with
these come fundamental reorganization as well, not only in Japan, but
in the United States, Europe, and all the advanced economies.

What we see, then, is a burgeoning crisis at the very heart of
bureaucracy. High-speed change not only overwhelms its
cubbyhole-and-channel structure, it attacks the very deepest
assumption on which the system was based. This is the notion that it
is possible to pre-specify who in the company needs to know what. It
is an assumption based on the idea that organizations are essentially
machines and that they operate in an orderly environment.
