# World's Laziest Teacher

Thomas Jefferson was arguably one of the most well-educated Americans
of his time. He was well-read, thoughtful, knowledgeable in a wide
variety of topics from the arts to the sciences,and the founder of the
University of Virginia. The same could probably be said of Ben
Franklin, or James and Dolly Madison. On the larger world stage, we
could credibly make such claims for Rene Descartes, William
Shakespeare, Galileo, Michelangelo, and Plato.

But there is this one thing unique about the education of all these
people, which is different from that of you, me, and our children:
none ever were given grades. All attended schools or had teachers who
worked entirely on a pass/fail system.

The model of education from its earliest times was one of mentorship
[..]. The teacher and the students got know one another. They
interacted constantly throughout the day. The teacher knew each child,
had a clear vision of each child's understanding of the coursework,
and worked with each child (or encouraged them to work with each
other) until the teacher was satisfied each child understood the
material...or was hopelessly incapable of being educated. Because this
latter was virtually an admission of failure on the part of the
teacher, it happened rarely.

When a student graduated, the most impressive thing she or he could
share with prospective employer was not a Grade Point Average (GPA) or
even the name of the institution attended: it was the name of the
teacher. [..]

This is how things went from 98,000 BC to roughly 1800 AD. Until
William Farish.

William Farish was a tutor at Cambridge University in England in 1792,
and, other than his single contribution to the subsequent devastation
of generations of schoolchildren, is otherwise undistinguished and
unknown by most people.

Around the turn of the 19th century, the Industrial Revolution was
going full-bore. Piece-work payments were becoming increasingly
popular, and many schools were beginning to pay teachers based on the
number of students they had, as opposed to a flat salary.

Getting to know his students, one may suppose, was too much trouble
for arish. It meant work, interacting and participating daily with
each child. It meant paying attention to their needs, to their
understanding, to their styles of learning. It mean there was a limit
on the number of students he could thus get to know, and therefore a
limit on how much money he could earn.

So Farish came up with a method of teaching which would allow him to
process more students in a shorter period of time. He invented
grades. (The grading system had originated earlier in the factories,
as a way of determining if the shoes, for example, made on the
assembly line were "up to grade." It was used as a benchmark to
determine if the workers should be paid, and if the shoes could be
sold.) [..]

What grades did do, however, was increase the salary of William
Farish, while, at the same time, lowering his workload and reducing
the hours he needed to burrow into his students' minds to know if they
understood a topic: his grading system would do it for him. And it
would do it just as efficiently for twenty children as it would for
two hundred.

Farish brought grades to the classroom, and the transformation was
both sudden and startling: a revolution as rapid and overwhelming as
the Industrial Revolution from which it had sprung. [..]

Without grades, the assembly-line-classroom would not be
possible. With grades, whole categories of children were discovered
who didn't fit onto the conveyor belt, providing an entire new realm
of employment for adults who would diagnose, treat, and remediate
these newly-discovered "learning disabled" children.

Responsibility for the success of learning shifted from teachers to
students: when kids failed, it was their own fault, because they
obviously had a defect or disorder of some sort.

A process of sorting and discarding the misfits began (just like in
the shoe factory) which, to this day, rewards the "standard" and
wounds the "different."

