# Week 44


India, UK conclude maiden joint tri-service exercise ‘Konkan Shakti'

---

The Mandarin: "[AU leaders] at the UN Climate Change Conference COP26
in Glasgow plan to promote the country as a ‘safe and reliable
investment destination’ for gas, hydrogen and new energy technologies"

---

"The Hurricane That Was So Powerful It Affected The American
Revolution.. In fact, the Great Hurricane of 1780 would go down in
history as the deadliest hurricane on record in the Atlantic and the
damage it caused was so extensive it severely weakened the British
regional efforts during the American Revolution"

[[-]](https://grantpiperwriting.medium.com/the-hurricane-that-was-so-powerful-it-affected-the-american-revolution-in-a-big-way-f77edac19e7a)

---

This is why leadership matters and direct democracy in a modern
setting cannot work. There isn't much wisdom in the "community".

---

One gent, a hack actually, hired by CATO, Jerry Taylor, was tasked
with arguing against climate change on various media (but later
changed his mind) offers great insight into public / voter decisions,
their perceptions.. "People dont take positions because they find
themselves reasoned into those positions, they take positions they
want to take for emotional or ideological reasons and they mobilize
their reasoning power to justify taking the positions they want to
take". Essentially [same analysis](2014/06/the-culture-code.md) given
in *The Culture Code*. Emotional brain (containing culture) overrides
the analytical. Politics 101.

\#theCampaignAgainstClimate

---

Thatcher, ditto

\#theCampaignAgainstClimate

---

Republican President HW talked abt the environment during his
time. This is pre-culture-war days. 

\#theCampaignAgainstClimate

---

HW Bush: "Those who think we are powerless to do anything about the
greenhouse effect, forget about the 'White House effect'" 

\#theCampaignAgainstClimate

---

Fine docu, *The Campaign Against the Climate*. Saw it on Al
Jazeera. Shows how climate change skeptics worked their magic.

---

Propane packs a punch. Clean molecules cld replace it.

EIA: "Propane [is used on] farms, for heating livestock housing and
greenhouses"

---

This is why winter heating is a bigger problem than expected.. There
is more livestock than people and they also need heating. Owners dont
just sacrifice all the chickens before winter and grow new ones during
summer, right?

---

WE Forum: "Humans are easily outnumbered by our farm animals. The
combined total of chickens (19 billion), cows (1.5 billion), sheep (1
billion) and pigs (1 billion) living at any one time is three times
higher than the number of people"

---

Green tech inclusion in either US bills is great, obviously I care
equally abt Medicare expansion, and drug price negotiation ability.

---

Good good

"[US] bipartisan package unveiled to support hydrogen technologies"

[[-]](https://www.h2-view.com/story/bipartisan-package-unveiled-to-support-hydrogen-technologies/)

---

"EU to push rich countries to increase climate funding for poorer nations at COP26"

---

AFP: "G20 leaders approve global tax reform deal"

---

Emission cheating f-ing Nazis

"Volkswagen's underlying profits tumbled in the third quarter"

---

Good question by Varoufuckis - "Star Trek vs. The Matrix - What's Our Future"

---

Politico: "Tish James took on Cuomo, Trump and the NRA. Now she's
running for governor of New York"

[[-]](https://www.politico.com/states/new-york/city-hall/story/2021/10/29/she-took-on-cuomo-trump-and-the-nra-now-tish-james-wants-to-be-governor-1392133)

---

Here's the deal. 0.86 kg lithium can store 1 kwh of energy. We need to
be able to store 431 Terrawatt hours per day. But there is only 17
million tonnes of reserves. Do the calculation...

---

