# Week 37

Though not listed as an official base S. Korean Jeju island can host
US mil in a gif, they frequently get US sub and aircraft carrier
visits anyway.

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/E_AAFZkXEAUWOaE?format=png&name=small)

---

Osprey aircraft uses tiltrotor tech, very unstable. In recent scifi we
start seeing more and more quadcopter like aircraft, but these are
unstable constructions. Forward thrust, glide are more stable, or
helicopter tech. It takes extreme amt of processing to keep a
quadcopter aloft, as every hobbyst knows.

Once again, tech looks shiny, but not robust. 

2017: "Nonfatal Osprey crash in Okinawa brings safety fears to fore"

---

ü§£ ü§£ ü§£ 

[Photo](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/E-_F_-bXMAEJxsE?format=jpg&name=small)

---

*Pandorum*, 2009, was ok.. Nice ending

---

Remember RR, this is the guy who waved a gun around on the big screen
for a living, then he was *shot* by a real gun, in real life. Also the
founder of modern conservatism.. I think he knew what he was talking
about.

---

"But guns are a natural con issue". ?? Ronald Reagan was for gun
control.

---

The rules of the culture war is that it is fought on moral, or stupid,
and usually deadlocked issues where there isn't much movement either
way. That works great, bcz then each side can jump up and down, and
galvanize "their base" wout causing much change, eg guns issue (until
it became seriously serious).. Or the climate.

The Atlantic: "Republican Party leaders and conservative intellectuals
haven‚Äôt been trumpeting the Supreme Court‚Äôs decision to allow a Texas
ban on abortions to go forward"

---

Never liked that general area, downtown.. Must have been the overt
finance-vibe.

---

One office building I worked at in NYC was very close to Zuccotti
Park, basically Ground Zero, few years before 9/11. I wasnt there
during the attack, was near midtown, different company, but still in
NYC.

20 years.. Wow

---

Politicians do a lot of work.. these ceremonies man.. go to a place
dont break composure listen to 2000+ names being read.. Sheesh

---


üëç

"Australia is ending its zero-covid strategy"

---

üëç

"Denmark lifts all Covid restrictions as vaccinations top 80%"

---
