

---

H2 View: "8GW hydrogen production project in Australia receives lead
agency status.. HyEnergy, a project aiming to generate around 60,000
tonnes of green hydrogen with a 8GW capacity, has been awarded a lead
agency status by the Western Australian Government"

---

H2 View: "Australia‚Äôs Queensland Government has seen recognition for
its $26bn of new energy economy projects within a new report
highlighting the significant emphasis on hydrogen technologies within
the nation"

---

That is why it's tough for businesses to fund true research. Using
graphical cards (such as NVidia's) for sci computing was discovered by
academia, not NVidia.

"@pfau

Research should be play. If your research has a roadmap, you're doing
it wrong"

[[-]](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FGxXoAdXEAc_jDI?format=png&name=small)

---

A summary of events in Chile that led to the latest election

[[-]](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos/2019/11/18/chileans-learned-the-right-lessons-after-the-pinochet-era/)

---

Villeneuve says his *Dune* camera shots mostly had two extremes;
landscape or faces. 

James Cameron & Denis Villeneuve

[[-]](https://youtu.be/RgZQK7cfx_0?t=636)

---

Aah the age of exploration.. 

Clarke, *The French Revolution*: "To Louis XVI, science was more
important than war... According to some witnesses, [Louis XVI]'s last
question to his entourage [as he was being taken to be executed] was:
'Is there any news of [the explorer] La P√©rouse?'"

---

H2 View: "African Hydrogen Partnership welcomes 14 new members"

---

WSJ: "The World Wants Green Hydrogen. Namibia Says It Can
Deliver... The southern African nation of sun-laden deserts and
wind-swept coastline is aiming to develop a hydrogen industry from
renewable sources to meet growing global demand"

---

The dynamics of tech adoption dictates there will be one
winner. Clearly it wont be the one that cannot scale worldwide,
heavily depends on rare-earth metals. 

---

Surely for a while Betamax and VHS were head-to-head. And I dont blame
some regular customers who mistakenly bought Betamax.. I am the guy
telling you it's going to be VHS.

---

BEVs are shit technology. FCEV is the way.

---

Ouch Manchin did the BBB denial on Fox News. 

---

There is enough uranium but nuclear energy has a serious waste storage
problem.

---

Gross keeps talking about the classical limit. Classical limit of
which theory? String Theory has multiples! 

\#ST_LQG

---

One of its active contributers, Smolin himself gave up on LQG didnt
he?

\#ST_LQG

---

Watching D Gross and Rovelli arguing String Theory vs Loop Quantum
Gravity. Neither have a complete picture (ST even less so) but both
report great results on black holes. Hilarious bcz, both iffy theories
reporting stuff on a construct that itself likely does not
exist. 

And dark matter, dark energy..? The bleeding edge of theoretical
physics post 70s has lost its way.. Gross is asking for 80 more years
so ST can show anything ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

\#ST_LQG

---

"Former student activist Gabriel Boric becomes Chile's youngest
president. Leftist lawmaker Gabriel Boric defeated right-wing
candidate Jose Antonio Kast in Chile's presidential runoff on
Sunday... Boric has promised to address economic inequality, raise
taxes on the rich and boost green investments"

---

2 Gigawatts. Cool.

H2 Fuel News: "Thyssenkrupp to build massive green hydrogen
electrolyzer in Saudi Neom megacity.. The German company won a
critical contract to build the first giga-scale 2GW plant"

---

H2 View: "Egypt is set to bolster its hydrogen ecosystem with Scatec
revealing a new green hydrogen and ammonia production facility that
will be exported to lucrative international markets"

---

H2 View: "Denmark to become a powerhouse for hydrogen with its new
strategy"

---

France has good solar [potential](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FG8kMI7WQAEi5bH?format=jpg&name=small)
in its Southeast, around Montepellier, Marseille, and Corsica. Gigawatt level CSPs
should be possible in these locations.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">.<a href="https://twitter.com/ZeroAvia?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@ZeroAvia</a> has signed a new agreement with <a href="https://twitter.com/DeHavilland?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@DeHavilland</a> to implement <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a>-electric engines into Dash 8-400 Aircraft in order to decarbonise the Canadian-based company‚Äôs operations.<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2View?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2View</a><a href="https://t.co/PwdDZg4INn">https://t.co/PwdDZg4INn</a></p>&mdash; H2 View (@h2_view) <a href="https://twitter.com/h2_view/status/1471049747591045122?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 15, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

[Infarm](https://youtu.be/TqeMPJbuXA0)

---

CNBC: "A Dutch vertical farming company has just been valued at over $1 billion"

[[-]](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/12/16/infarm-vertical-farming-firm-valued-at-over-1-billion-by-investors.html)

---

Actually the truth also has a lot of friends.. Dont knock it.

African Proverb: "Whoever tells the truth is chased out of nine villages."

---

What does it mean for a hurricane to have 25 GWh energy? Take one of
those 1 GW natgas pipelines that are built to supply *a country*. Line
up 25 of them, and use that massive power to run mega lawnmowers that
just chew through towns, cities, for one hour. Imagine the havoc that
cld be created with that. That is an Ivan, or Sandy.

---

OK Boomer

"@LeftJaddi

My boomer boss today was talking about how she "worked her ass off to
graduate college with no debt"

I asked her how much tuition was, she said $750 a semester"

---

"@JHead1984

What kills me about student debt cancellation is the people who would
be angry about it would forget in a week and the people who would be
forgiven would remember it for the rest of their lives. It's such an
easy political win"

---

The Shat apparently went bankrupt after Trek TOS was canceled (before
syndication made it big), he divorced, lost bunch of money, ended up
living out of his truck for a while, where, one day, on his 4x4 TV he
watched the moon landing live. The contrasts in that story.. The Shat,
his big scifi role (yet unrecognized), but being poor, and watching
actual space discovery taking place on TV.

---

I did watch the Shatner documentary about the events pre, post his
Blue Origin flight into space. Some interesting life stories there..

---

NFTs seem to have discovered what truly matters in owning content of
any kind -- a proof of connection to its creator. So now rich guy can
show off to his other rich friends "here is art piece content xyz and
its creator gave it to ME". Owning a Picasso was never about the art
for them, it was having a piece of art FROM Picasso. In painting the
art piece assured that connection, NFT now offers the same thing for
digital media.

