# Week 28


"Fusion Fuel Announces HEVO Ammonia Morocco Project. Morocco's Largest
Green Hydrogen & Green Ammonia Project is expected to produce 183,000
tons of green ammonia and abate 280,000 tons of CO2 annually"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3B9zECs)

---

Bloomberg: "Covid is still killing Americans faster than guns, cars
and the flu combined"

---

One cld monkey around with storage ratios etc and say 'barely enough' but
that doesn't cut it for battling climate change. We don't have time to
waste on band-aid, marginal solutions.
 
---

Lithium reserves [aren't even enough](../../2020/07/h2-numbers.md#driving) for cars.

---

I dont care abt ur language.. That's some funny shit

---

Anwendungen f√ºr Rundungen ü§£ ü§£ 

---

Da PDF mastah here. Can cut it in two (two-page becomes single page),
append, extract.. Image only book in PDF? No problem.  Apply OCR.

---

Jacobin: "The Billionaire Space Race Is the Ultimate Symbol of Capitalist Decadence"

[Link](https://jacobinmag.com/2021/07/billionaire-space-race-richard-branson-bezos-musk)

---

Finite Vol approaches üëé. I hear accuracy sucks too.

"FV/FD spatial discretizations constitute non-Galerkin weak form
decisions leading to nonlinear schemes via heuristic arguments"

---

IMO Singapore is looking to become a major H2 exporter itself. The H2
deals it makes are way more than its own needs.. It is looking to pull
as much to it as possible create the flow, then when this thing goes
through the roof (and it will) Singapore will be ready.

---

The kung-fu vaccine is no good

WSJ: "Hit Hard by Covid-19, Southeast Asian Countries Turn to Western
Vaccines.. As vaccine supplies open up, Indonesia, Malaysia and the
Philippines are shifting away from their reliance on Chinese vaccines"

---

AFP: "The WHO chief called Thursday for China to cooperate better in
the next phase of investigations into the origins of the Covid-19
pandemic, demanding more access to raw data"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Today, for the first time in decades, <a href="https://twitter.com/AppropsDems?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AppropsDems</a> passed a budget without the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydeAmendment?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydeAmendment</a>.‚ú®</p>&mdash; Katherine Clark (@RepKClark) <a href="https://twitter.com/RepKClark/status/1415753965929738255?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 15, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

31 C but feels like 37? yep that sounds abt right

---

Lynne O'Donnell on ABC: "Taliban is the biggest drug cartel in the
world".

Other comments were interesting, on poppy production, how Taliban
moved in AFG (started from South, spread elsewhere, following the
fields)

---

"Solar Polar, a U.K.-based startup, has developed a low-cost, off-grid
cooling and air conditioning system based on solar-diffusion
absorption-refrigeration (DAR) technology that incorporates ammonia
and hydrogen"

[Link](http://ammonia21.com/articles/10112/u_k_engineers_develop_solar_powered_cooler_based_on_ammonia_diffusion_absorption)

---

"New Zealand Signs #Hydrogen Agreement with Singapore"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3B3pjYJ)

---

AP: "Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has received a single-‚Äãdose coronavirus
vaccine, his office confirmed Wednesday [but kept mum, 4/2021]"

---

That's not how it works.. One general approach, the one that is
simplest, do the most with least will dominate. H2 can replace that
84%. Batteries cannot. There isn't enough lithium in the world
[for it](../../2020/07/h2-numbers.md#lithium).

"We could support 'a mix of solutions' for a net zero world, have a basket"

---

Forbes: "Fossil Fuels Still Supply 84 Percent Of World Energy..  as an
overall share of energy consumption, oil remained on top with 33% of
all energy consumption. The remainder of global energy consumption
came from coal (27%), natural gas (24%), hydropower (6%), renewables
(5%), and nuclear power (4%)"

---

US, UK, China, Russians.. historically they pumped the most carbon
into atmo, so they are responsible for global warming.

Any green tech invented in these countries need to be shared with the
rest of the world due to this offence. US polluted over 30 TIMES more
compared to Indonesia. Top 10 polluters are responsible for 70% of all
cumulative carbon pollution since the 18th century.

Don't get me started on natural gas, fracking and 'flaring'.

[Analysis](../../2021/07/historical-carbon-emissions.md)

---


"@annietrev
 
.. Today I opened the UK‚Äôs first Hydrogen Home in Gateshead, thanks to funding from @beisgovuk... "

---

"Brett McGurk .. senior [ME] policy official..  traveled to Baghdad
last week [May 2021] to speak with Iraqi prime minister ..  about...
the future of U.S. troops [in Iraq]. As of today, there are roughly
2,500 U.S. troops deployed to Iraq ‚Äî down from nearly 6,000 in 2016.

In reality, however, the U.S. military is spending about as much
time ducking rocket fire from an alphabet soup of Shia militias. The
attacks on Iraqi military bases and airports that house U.S. personnel
or contractors have gotten so frequent that a week free of rocket fire
is almost considered an abnormality.

According to a count by the AFP news agency, around 30 rocket, mortar,
or bomb attacks on U.S.-linked facilities and coalition troop convoys
have occurred since President Joe Biden‚Äôs inauguration on January 20"

[Link](https://news.yahoo.com/time-u-leave-iraq-103027786.html)

---

Apparently if Trump had a second term that royal kerkuffle wld
probably shape differently for Jordan.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">At the core of the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/EUGreenDeal?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#EUGreenDeal</a> lies the need to fight climate change. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Hydrogen</a> technologies are an important part of the overall solution to reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030.<br>Our recently released üìΩÔ∏è: <a href="https://t.co/kQx3UMA77e">https://t.co/kQx3UMA77e</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Fitfor55?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Fitfor55</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ClimateNeutralEU?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ClimateNeutralEU</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/CleanHydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#CleanHydrogen</a> <a href="https://t.co/RiSi5EvBri">https://t.co/RiSi5EvBri</a> <a href="https://t.co/nDWHwpxJhh">pic.twitter.com/nDWHwpxJhh</a></p>&mdash; FCH JU (@fch_ju) <a href="https://twitter.com/fch_ju/status/1415296072583467008?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 14, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@gbrl_dick

Most attempts to integrate ‚Äòcomputers‚Äô & [IOT] functionality into
consumer products make the consumer product dramatically worse lmao
why does it keep happening??? no touch screens, just make a knob"

---

"EU unveils sweeping climate change plan.. It proposes taxing jet fuel
and effectively banning the sale of petrol cars within 20 years"

---

CNBC: "EU presents its plan to achieve carbon neutrality... The
27-member bloc has vowed to become carbon neutral by 2050"

---

"Next-gen [British Columbia, Canada] hydrogen tech blazing trail to net zero"

[Link](https://www.vantechjournal.com/p/bc-hydrogen-tech-net-zero)

---

Eriksson, *Computational Differential Equations*: "Mathematical
modeling has two basic dual aspects: one symbolic and the other
constructive-numerical, which reflect the duality between the infinite
and the finite, or the continuum and the discrete... However,
beginning with the search for rigor in the foundations of calculus in
the 19th century, a split between the symbolic and constructive
aspects gradually developed. The split accelerated with the invention
of the electronic computer in the 1940s, after which the constructive
aspects were pursued in the new fields of numerical analysis and
computing sciences, primarily developed outside departments of
mathematics. The unfortunate result today is that symbolic mathematics
and constructive-numerical mathematics by and large are separate
disciplines and are rarely taught together. Typically, a student first
meets calculus restricted to its symbolic form and then much later, in
a different context, is confronted with the computational side. This
state of affairs lacks a sound scientific motivation and causes severe
difficulties in courses in physics, mechanics and applied sciences
building on mathematical modeling"

---

There are raw feelings around Cuba in Florida.. not entirely baseless per
history. Sometimes pol can shape opinion, sometimes can't, have to
work around it. [#ABC](https://thumbs.gfycat.com/AncientAllBasenji-size_restricted.gif)

---

GDELT troop deployment [update](../../2019/05/confstats.md#gdtroop)

---

The Guardian: "Amazon rainforest now emitting more CO2 than it absorbs"

---

The new Green leader is getting smacked around too. The DE next gen is
having problems.

---

U-oh. 

"[New CDU leader] Armin Laschet‚Äôs tax comments divide German conservatives"

---

WSJ: "Explosion Kills at Least Nine Chinese Nationals in Pakistan"

---

Reuters: "Universal Hydrogen, a U.S. firm that aims to do for clean
fuel what Nespresso did for coffee, is poised to announce preliminary
hydrogen deals with airlines including Icelandair"

---

"Cummins & others are funding design / creation of the 'H2Rescue'
emergency vehicle"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3r7fYKK)

---

Interesting theory.. dude claims the Islamic prayer direction was
changed early in its history, they plotted early mosques' direction,
it points towards the city of Petra. The claim is Mohammad is even
from that general region.. The famous "cave", going by its
description, fits there too. Dam

[Link](https://youtu.be/JOWFPTzK7D4?t=1828)

---

Cuba issue is toxic for Dems in Florida.. Treading carefully is
advised.. Otherwise there is an *el voto* and it will be for
*castigo*. Says it right there in Spanish.. Doesn't it sound more
serious in Spanish?

---

EL VOTO CASTIGO

"Approved by the Clinton Administration's Justice Department, the raid
on April 22, 2000, to take custody of Eli√°n Gonz√°lez was emotional and
dramatic‚Äîand so was its impact on Cuban-American voters. In the view
of Miami-based pollster Sergio Bendixen, 'It was humiliating to
Cuban-Americans, and the 2000 election was payback.' They called it
*el voto castigo*, or 'the punishment vote.' Whom did Cuban-American
voters punish? Democratic nominee Al Gore and his fellow Democrats"

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/amp/article/377714/)

---

AP: "Hispanics account for one-fourth of the population of Florida, a
critical presidential battleground, and 1 in every 5 of its 13.8
million voters. The Pew Research Center estimates that nearly a third
of Florida‚Äôs Hispanic voters have roots in Cuba"

[Link](https://apnews.com/article/ap-top-news-ca-state-wire-cuba-miami-fidel-castro-fd2466e6990775bf961ac332b1cc02ea)

---

F24: "Covid-19 jab bookings surge in France as Macron announces new
restrictions for the unvaccinated.. The Doctolib site reported what it
said was a record 20,000 appointments being taken every minute on
Monday evening. The site¬†said early Tuesday morning¬†that a total of
926,000 people had booked a first jab through the platform over the
course of¬†Monday, 'an absolute record'"

---

I hear good things on the exec order.. hopefully staffing works out to
enforce it..?

[Link](https://prospect.org/economy/one-problem-with-bidens-executive-order-spree/)

---

"By late April, more than 80% of the world‚Äôs COVID-19 vaccines had
gone to people in wealthy countries, with just 0.3% to people in
low-income countries... Currently, older and medically vulnerable
individuals are dying from COVID-19 disproportionately in poor
countries, while young, healthy individuals are getting vaccinated in
wealthy ones...

What may be most pernicious about the COVAX scheme, however, is that
rich countries and their pharmaceutical companies have repeatedly used
it as a shield to deflect demands for IP waivers... Over 50 years ago,
Kwame Nkrumah observed how aid is a ‚Äòrevolving credit‚Äô which returns
to countries of the global North in the form of increased profits. [To
a certain extent] COVAX is being leveraged to protect corporate
patents and profits..

[A solution is] focused on pooling, temporary waivers, or suspension
of IP"

[Link](https://gh.bmj.com/content/6/6/e006504)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Democratizing vaccine intellectual property and supporting countries in building manufacturing capacity will help achieve vaccine justice and overcome the COVID-19 pandemic and future pandemics. <a href="https://t.co/VRNJ439xlD">https://t.co/VRNJ439xlD</a></p>&mdash; George Soros (@georgesoros) <a href="https://twitter.com/georgesoros/status/1412351181674926080?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 6, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Siemens to Build One of #Germany‚Äôs Largest Carbon-Free #Hydrogen
Generation Plants in Wunsiedel"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3AUKmfR)

---

"@mtracey

Trump's consistently pro-vaccine messaging is really at odds with what
heavily online MAGA types tend to say about the subject"

[Link](https://mobile.twitter.com/mtracey/status/1414278337732784134)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Everyone knows already that Sci-Hub is the greatest contribution to science and humanity and etc.<br>Where is my Nobel Peace Prize then? I wonder</p>&mdash; Alexandra Elbakyan (@ringo_ring) <a href="https://twitter.com/ringo_ring/status/1414342378765307907?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Polity was a great dataset.. it's been having funding problems?

"For the past twenty-five years, CSP/INSCR data resources, such as
Polity, have been generously supported with funding from the US
Government (through association with the Political Instability Task
Force); that financial support was terminated on 29 February 2020."

[Link](https://www.systemicpeace.org/inscrdata.html)

---

Up until 2020 BTI data confirms a [decline](../../2016/11/why-is-democracy-better.md#btiall)
(2000-2020). The fall is not excessive but it is there.

Polity results (same page) shows pre 2000 status.

The Independent: "2020 was 'another year of decline for liberal
democracy,' said a recent report from the V-Dem Institute, a
Sweden-based research center. 'The world is still more democratic than
it was in the 1970s and 1980s, but the global decline in liberal
democracy has been steep during the past 10 years.'"

---

ME conflict [stats](../../2019/05/confstats.md#gdeltme)

---

"Fox News anchor Rob Schmitt cavalierly suggested on Friday night that
vaccines are 'against nature' because some diseases are just 'supposed
to wipe out a certain amount of people' since that‚Äôs just the 'way
evolution goes'"

[Link](https://trib.al/a15Ge60 )

---

FT: "Time to stop stock trading by US Congress representatives"

---

Trying to reject a (null) hypothesis in stats is like demonstrating
guilt (or disproving innocence) in a court system.. To prove
something, one tries to disprove the opposite, at extremely high
levels "beyond reasonable doubt", then can be more or less sure that
the original statement is correct.

---

The answer [is yes](../../2015/08/temp-increase.md#carbon)

"Does carbon levels in atmo cause temparature increase?"

---

Guys from KTH Sweden. Effin Tor mfker.. They got some game there.

---

Assump was I cld take any shape (defined in a CAD file) apply virtual
wind in a virtual wind tunnel and see the forces acting on it, with
medium level computation. Not possible. At least not thru anything
widely known. Paper below is from 2014.

Which brings me back to  ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇ

---

So much stuff is undone.. I thought we were further ahead in many
things..  especially aerodynamics.

---

ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è ü§¶‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è 

"New Theory of Flight.. The new theory of drag and lift of a wing is
fundamentally different from the textbook theory.. [The old]
Prandtl-Kutta-Zhukovsky theory which was developed shortly after
powered flight was shown to be possible by the Wright brothers in
1903, breaking the perceived mathematical impossibility of powered
flight based on Newton‚Äôs incorrect theory of lift from air hitting the
wing from below. We find that the textbook theory of flight attributed
to Prandtl-Kutta-Zhukovsky is incorrect, since it is based on
phenomena which are not carried by solutions of the Navier-Stokes
equations"

[Link](http://www.bcamath.org/documentos_public/archivos/publicaciones/kth-ctl-4044.pdf)

---

YT channel folk had started to sound like drugged up all of a sudden
turns out I unwittingly changed the playback speed to 0.75.

---

ü§£ Just teasing man.. 

---

Brexit has been discredited ONCE AGAIN

---

"@bghayward

ENG scored so early and didn‚Äôt seem to know what to do after
that. Invited pressure and paid price, but this experience part of
their growth. They will be back.

ITA impeccable under Mancini and deserved winners. Outstanding all
through tournament. Auguri!"

---

3-2, for Italy. 

---

"Bringing it home", sounds catchy. But I am rooting for the
Quaquaalude on this one.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">animated gif won&#39;t play on tricorder</p>&mdash; Riker Googling (@RikerGoogling) <a href="https://twitter.com/RikerGoogling/status/1414323747075489795?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

The Guardian: "US west heatwave: 31m people brace for record-breaking
temperatures.. Las Vegas could surpass its record-high of 117 F [47 C]
as residents of US west face very high risk of heat-related
illness.. More than 31 million people across the US west and
south-west are bracing for a brutal heatwave that could bring
triple-digit [Fahrenheit] temperatures this weekend"

---

These ppl cant seem to catch a break. 

Clinton restored that guy to power BTW in 1994 (backed up by UN Sec
Council decision -US mil deployed, dictators fleed wout fight-) but in
the long run did the intervention help?  H has much intervention,
there seems to be a repetition set in around that particular
dysfunction.

Al Jazeera: "2004 ‚Äì Political unrest forces Aristide to flee but the
country descends into violence"

---

Al Jazeera: "2010 ‚Äì A catastrophic earthquake kills between 100,000
and 300,000 people, according to various estimates, causing widespread
damage in Port-au-Prince and elsewhere. Despite an international
relief effort, the country is all but overwhelmed, exacerbating
political, social and economic problems"

[Link](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2021/7/7/haitis-turbulent-political-history-a-timeline)

---

"@aaronclauset

Increasingly, I dislike hearing 'Congratulations!' when someone says a
paper got into a fancy venue. It sounds nice! But to me, it
compliments the 'winning' (metadata) rather than the science
(content), and furthers the gamification of science"

---

Article suggests changes were afoot among Dems a while back..
Boushey demo'd some leadership

[Link](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2021/07/biden-big-left-gamble.html)

---

Another pollution related scandal in Germany? Unbelievable. Of course
VW is involved.

"According to a story in Forbes this week, the fact that German
authorities have been looking into the auto industry‚Äôs business
dealing has caused industry leaders to engage in a mad-dash to be the
first whistleblower... Indeed, it looks like Daimler grabbed the
golden ring, which could save it billions, while Volkswagen, which
thought it had won the honors, came in second and BMW is a distant
third. Under European Union law, the first one to become a
whistleblower usually comes away with little more than a slap on the
wrist .. while number three pays the bulk, in this case, BMW"

[Link](https://www.torquenews.com/3769/daimler-beats-vw-bmw-key-whistleblower-europe-car-cartel-probe)

---

BBC: "Venezuela: Battles rage between police and gangs in Caracas"

---

Imma have to go against the bear on that one.

"Grizzly bear shot dead after killing woman in Montana..  local
officials said that the bear involved in Ms Lokan's death was
considered a public safety threat because of the nature of the attack"

---

BLM stats [update](../../2019/05/confstats.md#gdeltblm)

---

They exceeded that apparently so they generate more $O_2$ than $CO_2$.
According to DW docu Bhutan is now the greenest country on Earth.

"As mandated in its constitution, Bhutan preserves (at all times) 60
percent of its land under forest cover. " 

---

"TAQA Group and Abu Dhabi Ports Planning 2 GW Green Hydrogen to Ammonia
Project.. Establishes KIZAD and Khalifa Port as an export hub for
green hydrogen"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3xuts60)

---
