# Week 38

I could tell, when Oz PM had a good welcome in Paris with Macron,
there was some kind of deal.. Vigourous handshake, not like that time
when Trump was handcucked, but "business is good", "hey mate", kinda
way.. The deal was probably on then. Later it is abruptly
canceled. FR, pissed.

---

Commotion? Hoo-ha..? Hurly burly?

---

WSJ: "France Recalls Ambassadors to U.S., Australia Over Submarine Deal"

---

The Independent: "Judge refuses woman’s demand that hospital treat her
husband with horse dewormer ivermectin.. In a ruling, the judge
condemned those who promote the horse deworming drug for the virus as
‘persons who spout out-right falsehoods’"

---

Before he dies a decorated WWII German tank commander says "Valhalla
here I come".  That's the Nazi heaven isn't it? They are from
Atlantis, they go to Valhalla? 

---

Mobilizing the other side was easy. The fall of the Berlin Wall scared
the shit ouf Dems anyway, they moved to center, low income folk were
out, office-dwelling shitlibs were in. Dangle little Kennedy-cool in
front of them, pick and choose from the movements of 60s, done. The
new crowd could "get red in the face" when Vietnam was mentioned, and
celebrate the bombing of Libya.

---

Libertarians unknowingly could have provided the much-needed
ideological support for the Rep/Dem culture war, so that the
single-party, Washington Consensus could continue unimpeeded..

Conservatives could likely compromise on gun control (see Ronald
Reagan) or for climate protection (see Richard Nixon) but the
single-party rule needed the "secondary" issues to be radicalized. To
that end Reps could always point to a libertarian to justify these
extreme positions, 'look these guys over there are against it, gun
control is too much government, climate protection is, well, too much
government, and they are quoting some 18 century jagoff, so they must
have a point"..

Libertarians are the useful idiots in this picture bcz they would
never get their zero-deficit no-war wishes from the single-party,
instead they became tools to blunt the visible stupidity of the
culture war, providing the much needed ideological paintjob.

---
