# Week 4

Earth being a shithole in The Expanse is a bit of a stretch. They have
UBI, an atmosphere, can grow stuff and by then god knows what. So
they'd still be 1000 times better off than any comparable nearby
planet, rock. Even if underwater u'd sooner develop gills to adapt to
that than the bone structure to live on Mars.

Still, good story telling, great show

---


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The first green <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> refueling station is inaugurated in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Madrid?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Madrid</a>🇪🇸 with a supply capacity of 10kg/day and a refueling pressure of 700 bar/MPa. With the support of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Toyota?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Toyota</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Enagas?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Enagas</a>, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Urbaser?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Urbaser</a>, Carburos Metalicos and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Sumimoto?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Sumimoto</a>. It will supply 12 <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ToyotaMirai?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#ToyotaMirai</a> of these companies. <a href="https://t.co/1mVzzmoX5V">pic.twitter.com/1mVzzmoX5V</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogfan (@hydrogfan) <a href="https://twitter.com/hydrogfan/status/1355160769739042817?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 29, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Crashing the gates".. yea.. Back in 90s, u could have that feling
about "the Internet" battling retail giants, Walmart. The most
representative of the era, Amazon, is now another retail giant,
another corporation that people complain about in similar ways.

---

\#GME

"Robinhood giveth, then it taketh away. Hurt one hedge fund, and
unless you take the entire system down with it, a Citadel Securities
will make sure it grows back. They’re all part of the same
organism. 'This makes capitalism very much like the Thing in John
Carpenter’s film of the same name: a monstrous, infinitely plastic
entity, capable of metabolizing and absorbing anything with which it
comes into contact'"

[Link](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2021/01/gamestop-saga-shows-the-final-boss-is-capitalism.html)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">New Catalyst Produces <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GreenHydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GreenHydrogen</a> from Seawater--They have also developed a prototype device using this catalyst, known as the ‘Ocean-<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a>-Rig’--<a href="https://t.co/6PWPJ5INTE">https://t.co/6PWPJ5INTE</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/cleanenergy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#cleanenergy</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/zeroemissions?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#zeroemissions</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a><a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@fuelcellsworks</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1355140085088477187?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 29, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

\#GME

"This isn't the exciting, hilarious answer you want, but a lot of
people had no idea it was even happening until the past 48 hours, and
even now, it's mostly just a funny news article about some internet
trolls making a bubble... As much as young people on the internet like
to imagine this as an epic, David vs Goliath, Wall Street vs Main
Street showdown for the history books, from a bird's eye view it's
actually just a brief dumpster fire"

[Link](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/l7bl3z/brokers_of_reddit_how_crazy_is_it_where_you_work/gl64yau)

---

Finally some cold. Much prefer than warm weather.

---

Considering daily minimal vitamin C req, one orange is eough for 5
days? Not bad.. 

---

New Found Glory - Tennessee (Punk Goes Crunk) \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/M8kpOz0qO08)

---

While in US back in the day when I noticed odd BMI, I researched
little and came upon Montignac, the French diatician. His method
worked brilliantly; he wrote abt same issues that are mainstream
now. I helped a few coworkers lose weight through this method too..

---

What were the highlights from the DW documentary on junk food?

Michelle Obama had a genuine effort started to decrease childhood
obesity, but it was hijacked by corps and the message was diverted
into exercise (Raj Patel has some colorful comments here), fun and
dancing were emphasized and it was swarmed by showbiz people. That
switch wld not help, as u need better eating than exercise.

I now have this nagging feeling that the big exercise movements of
80/90s were a result of misplaced hope, or straight up media
manipulation. People were gradually getting worse but did not know
why, they shld have been led towards better eating, but the message
was corrupted, diverted to exercise. More muscles, more running etc.

How it started: During 70s the silent killer was heart attack. It was
determined "fat" was the culprit, so the fight was on. Fat had to be
removed. But when food producers took the fat out they replaced it
with something worse.. sugar. Fat alone cannot cause excessive weight
gain, sugar has to act as catalyst.

Producer of "sugared drinks" which essentially what Coca Cola is, had
a field day. Through globalization they also reached broader
markets. Through NAFTA for example they had freer access to Mexico and
coupled with other "invasions" the Mexican diet worsened, became more
artificial and sweeter, the effects were immediate, they became less
healthier, fatter. Two NGO lawyers recently fought to add a tax on
sugared food and drinks, they won; afterwards obesity decreased
substantially.

---

It looks like the raw data came from below

[Comparative Political Data Set](https://www.cpds-data.org/index.php/data)

---

Yeah... that shit needs to improve

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Es2xnbjXYAA1sUR?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

News item on Oz-CH trade spat on wine is labeled "sour grapes" :)
Old-timey news channel stuff..

---

AT was the PM of left Syriza party during Greece-EU debt crisis
negotiations.

A. Tsipras: "Vaccines are a public good, not a corporate product.. Europe
should focus on acquiring patents and production licenses, not just
vaccines"

[Link](https://www.politico.eu/article/coronavirus-vaccines-public-good-not-corporate-product/)

---

Shit is real. Get ready.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">From 2023 SYMBIO plan to manufacture 200,000 fuel cell stack per year. in Lyon, France:<a href="https://t.co/IfZFpeDsxw">https://t.co/IfZFpeDsxw</a><br>Congratulations to this decision!</p>&mdash; Reiner (@H2FCEV) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2FCEV/status/1354843746551140360?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 28, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I guess carbon storage can be a pain in the ass...

Ideally though u want some cheap crystallization tech anyone can use
which once solidified 1 throws solid CO2 in a pit nearby where they
wont mix with, pollute anything.

---

They provide a carbon storage service? In Norway? Sounds like a good
idea. You ship your carbon to them, they store it.

"Northern Lights project: a collaboration between Equinor, Shell and
Total that is paving the way for a shared European infrastructure for
carbon transport and storage"

[Link](https://www.theexplorer.no/stories/energy/carbon-capture-and-storage-northern-lights--shared-transport-and-storage-infrastructure-for-europes-co-emissions/)

---

From US DOE. Already working, proven tech. 

"Approximately 1,600 miles of hydrogen pipelines are currently
operating in the United States. Owned by merchant hydrogen producers,
these pipelines are located where large hydrogen users, such as
petroleum refineries and chemical plants, are concentrated such as the
Gulf Coast region. Transporting gaseous hydrogen via existing
pipelines is a low-cost option for delivering large volumes of
hydrogen"

[Link](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/hydrogen-pipelines)

---

"Moldova, Europe’s poorest country, has not been able to deliver a
single jab yet because it can’t afford to buy the vaccine... Europe’s
most economically disadvantaged countries are relying on Covax, a
facility for low-income nations led by WHO in response to the
pandemic. The organisation will guarantee free jabs for 20% of a
country’s population. As for the rest of the doses they need, these
countries are seeking help from richer neighbours. That is hardly the
way to solve a global pandemic. In an interconnected world, no country
is safe until every country is safe" via France24

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/world/commentisfree/2021/jan/28/here-in-europes-poorest-country-we-have-no-vaccine-to-argue-over)

---

Making their IP public is always possible. It's been done before, even
in US, on [transistor patents](../../2020/03/appelbaum.md#transistor). 1952..
Truman's time.

---

AstraZenaca overpromised and now cant deliver. Daam

---

I am in research, ed material seeking mode which is always intense.

---

It is rare but there are anti-capitalist rich people, like Hanauer..
keeps saying if nothing is done the pitchforks are coming.

---

Loud I mean loud, one dude was like "Im at home, shut the doors,
windows, still frickin Lars Ulrich banging the drums in my head".

---

I could profile sure.. but than its TMI

---

It is interesting Benioff had that anti-capitalist rant on the WEF
video.  Genuine or a little "i-am-an-outsider", "the-hippie-inside"
exercise?

I heard he hired Metallica once for some Salesforce company concert
and had them rock so loud ppl had their eardrums pop in central
SF. Middle finger to everyone in SF maybe.

I know nothing else abt this man, will not speculate further.

---

I am always interested in a book that has ".. and Beyond" in its
title, no matter the topic.

---

Too much short interest on that stock, 140% on float is
ludicrous. Someone jumped the shark on that one, waiting to get
smacked. 

"@ihors3

GME short [interest] is $10.64B ... 139.73%"

---

Arithmetic degrees are different obviously, East is 0, increases
counter-clockwise.

---

And the angles increase clockwise 🤨

---

Meteorology has its angles all weird... Pointing directly south is 0
degrees.. I guess they are mainly concerned with "will I be feeling
that cold breeze up my ass, and at what angle?".

---

From Davos, World Economic Forum

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uPYx12xJFUQ?start=146&end=185" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

This was all volumetric energy levels, did not even look at weight
issues yet. They will likely be as bad as Li-On. 

---

Solid-State batteries.. Let's check them out.

Current Li-On bats have 1.8 MJ/liter. It is estimated that their dev
will stagnate at around 2.88 MJ/liter. Solid state, the hot-shot tech
will give you 3.6 MJ / liter. :(

Not even around yet BTW until 2030 and their prod issues have not been
resolved.

Air travel not possible w that kind of density.

Liquified H2 has 8.5 MJ/liter, the soln Airbus is considering. 

"The best-in-class of these [Li-on] cells have an energy density of
around 700 watt-hours per liter (Wh/l)...  Yet, their energy density
is expected to stagnate at around 800 Wh/l due to the characteristics
of their active materials .. 1000 Wh/l should become available in
2030—in the form of solid-state lithium-metal batteries. "

[Link](https://www.eenewseurope.com/news/solid-state-battery-tech-electric-cars-key-greater-autonomy)

---

"BBC's Winterwatch delivers first zero emission broadcast"

[Link](https://t.co/0YOoNevUur?amp=1)

---

Wilshire increased - again

```
2021-01-26       191.42
```

---

These black holes, freaking time dilation fields, huge cosmological
events are pure speculation per existing models. In *Sunshine* the
heroes of the movie managed to fix the sun. Think about that. THE
SUN. We were that adv on that front, see.. But mainstream sci doesnt
even know what the muck it is made of.. How cld we fix that shit?

---

Why is the Big Bang not scifi worthy? It's all fi, not much sci. When
Arthur C. Clarke thought up satellite technology, it was fiction but
scientifically solid. A little more basic science, some more
engineering got us there. Or when Jules Verne thought about using H2
as fuel in 1800s..

---

<img width="340" src="https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1_estbcX6JjX12n3KzA9Df0snA5cB4piE"/>

"LAVO receives commitment from iconic Australian company, Gowings to
become a cornerstone investor"

[Link](https://lavo.com.au/lavo-receives-commitment-from-iconic-australian-company-gowings-to-become-a-cornerstone-investor/)

---

Then do we need all that horizontal space to grow stuff on? Have this
"liquid soil", have all vertically stacked up, grow plants. 

---

Alternatives to soil for farming

"[P]lants are grown in a liquid solution of water and
nutrients. Hydroponics agriculture is performed within greenhouses
that have temperature regulations that allow crops to be grown
year-round"

[Link](https://sites.psu.edu/futureoffood/2016/02/07/are-there-alternatives-to-soil)

---

He also answered the question "what is fascism?" with "it is
whatever's going through my head at that point in time". 

---

Haha.. of course. Makes perfect sense.

"Benito Mussolini coined the term 'fascism' in 1919 to describe his
political movement. He adopted the ancient Roman fasces as his
symbol. This was a bundle of rods tied around an ax, which represented
the power of Rome"

[Link](https://www.crf-usa.org/bill-of-rights-in-action/bria-25-4-mussolini-and-the-rise-of-fascism.html)

---

US may not have *köfte*, but it does have meatloaf. Pretty much the
same ingredients.. very tasty too.. With that whole
glaze.. yiiieeaaeah...

---

Used to think 90s was our zenith but maybe it was 19th century. In the
right geo, there is good science, exploration, no climate change, good
diet..

---

Victorian Diet

"Eating onions, cabbage, beetroot and cherries meant 19th century
people were healthier than we are today. [They] were healthier and had
stronger immune systems than us... Also ate wholemeal bread which
contained immune-boosting yeast. Avoided sugar, cigarettes, drank weak
alcohol and did strenuous exercise. They ate onions, watercress,
cabbage, beetroot, Jerusalem artichokes, apples.

You could get a huge bunch of watercress for next to nothing - there
were watercress trains that came into the cities. Cherries were known
as a poor man’s fruit. A punnet of cherries, that you would pay £6 for
in Marks and Spencer's these days, you could get then for a ha'penny
[a coin the equivalent to half a penny]. They ate scraps of meat from
the bone, boiling the bones to get all the nutrients. And fish like
herring, mackerel and cod roes"

[Link](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3317096/Forget-Paleo-try-VICTORIAN-diet-Eating-onions-cabbage-beetroot-cherries-meant-19th-century-people-healthier-today.html)

---

Idea: Take fundamental physics up and until 30s. Take the addl
measurements done since (they are fine), and obviously use modern
computing.. I think one can still do some damage in sci starting from
principles of what was known back then, and working it forward

---

I always felt uneasy abt the Big Bang.. not the concept per se but the
fact that it was so far in the past.. With so much of basics
unresolved in fundamental phy, how can you rewind the model and peer
so far back in history? To the beginning of time!

---

Their Rome collapsed first, so they had the experience of the absence
of a centralized power for longer, had a period of diverse
city-states, and there were always other small to medium states near
in Europe, which creates a certain pluralistic environment. They had a
major part in Renaissance, most of that stuff is internalized. That's
why the guinea is better off than my niggers. Otto version of Rome
limped into 20th, blocking dev.

"Italy also has Rome in its past, why arent they in a mess at the
level of Asia Minor?"

---

"@defense_news

Greece and France ink $3 billion contract for Rafale fighter jets"

[Link](https://trib.al/9ZlNbjI)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">DFINITY is hosting a virtual event with <a href="https://twitter.com/Forbes?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Forbes</a> that will cover how business models will be reshaped by the new internet. Speaker lineup to be announced soon. Secure your spot for the February 18 event here: <a href="https://t.co/uP8TL7Gxmk">https://t.co/uP8TL7Gxmk</a></p>&mdash; DFINITY Foundation (@dfinity) <a href="https://twitter.com/dfinity/status/1353833081296175108?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 25, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I be doing the Duck Walk like

<img width="340" src="https://giffiles.alphacoders.com/356/35639.gif"/>

---

For all driving, lithium world reserves are soorta enough assuming
half a day of storage. If you take one full day, not enough. Half a
day, plus a swap mechanism, not enough.. This thing has a bleak
future. Thought oil caused wars? Wait to see the wars on this one.

---

That tactic wld work on a lot of people, not just the "uneducated"
BTW. I see a lot of young ppl ignoring this part of politics, having a
naive belief in people wisdom or power. Voters fall for spin, lies,
get led one way or another, all the time. Know the game so u can fight
in it (and eventually prov something better). 

---

How did Biden neutralize Trump strengths..? On China for example.. Ads
said Trump was weak on China, sold out to China, it was repeated
during debates. To Trump!

Pol experts wld know this is not true.. but the mere fact that it is
said, raises doubt, creates oppo to sell.

---

Here comes the lattice, and probabilities..

---

DW had an excellent documentary the other day on diet, sugar in
foods.

Will that uploaded to their archives? It had Raj Patel, talked abt
Coke in Mexico, etc.

Anyone watching that would be warier of American Coca-Cola than the
American military.

---

Cornel West also talked abt the neofascist threat... it's not like
this is news in the left.

---

TBH most of this stuff is not even scifi worthy. How many times have
seen a black hole in a movie, TV show. "Time dilation field near it
duuuude"... potentially all fking bollocks.

---

You could certainly focus on QM and have some fun there but I was
wondering if they were effing shite up at large scale first.. and they
were. No big bang? No black holes? All this dark matter, dark energy
stuff is in question? Man o man...

---

New deadlier strain of covid? Need to stop all intl flights?

---

Nationalize all covid vaccine companies

---

Irving Martin & Brian Dee - Indianapolis 2 \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/nnTd98SMYzs)

---

M. Mikkelsen movie, *Polar*, thumbs up. J Wick type story, but it
stands on its own. Rated R.

---

Great scenery, new moral dilemmas, space and Earth - The Expanse did
not disappoint \#S0508

---

OoooOOOo Java Applet, is it?

Of course the URL is now pointing to hyperspace.. 404.

That's some old shit right there.

---

The parts that make up these Frankensteins are also broken beyond
repair, e.g. TR nationalism is bizarrely fallacious. The locals of
Anatolia owe next to nothing to "the steppes", neither in genetics,
nor in culture (every migrant was assimilated into the region, and the
gov culture was Roman -so again local-). How my people manage to move
an inch is beyond me, but then again, they really aren't.

---

Which and how the ideological parts get included can be completely
arbitrary, the mix is all in the mind of the fascist.

The leaders of these parties, coalitions are effective schizophrenics,
mental patients of DID (dissociative identity disorder). This is not
surprising bcz the poor asshole has to maintain all that crud in a
singular head. So one day he'll talk about his "pure race from the
steppes of Central Asia", the next socialism-level state intervention,
the one after that neoliberal market action. The followers clap
nevertheless, too braindead to realize something is off, but sadly for
the country, its media also suffer from the same condition who
mistake this show for politics.

---

TR lives in a seperate plane of existence, as such naturally shows how
not to do something, anything.. Its parties, coalitions are cesspools
of proto-fascim, bunch of stuff thrown in some container *beforehand*,
from get-go, either after coups, or in "parties" that live in the
aftermath of those coups. Take 4 views, throw them in, done. Of course
it is impossible to maintain incompatibilities for an extended period
of time, that's where fascism comes in.

A by-product of the approach is whatever the mix happens to be,
anything that is left out, is immediately deligitimized. This can be
the left, sometimes the right (and almost always Kurds), but there is
always the legitimate mix and "others".

"How do things work in TR?"

---

If party gets its chance to govern on his own, great. See FDR and the
New Deal.

FDR knew what he wanted. He nearly packed the SC for its
hand-wringing.

---

Yes I said thought leaders, not random jagoff out on the street, see
below. She is asking what was done for them, not "have you checked the
latest polls?"

"If u can keep it" is part retort

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EsQRs0hXEAMmvmH?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

The emergent, self-organized blocks of ideologies, as clusters, carry
within a good signal, if enough though leaders coalesced around
something, chances are there is an approach that needs representing.

---

Do coalitions.. But between ideologically distinct parties. If that is
in place, fine, obviously some coalitions will be able to deliver more
than others, but at least seperate parties decide how that coalition
is formed, on their own terms.

"If not unifying, then should people not do coalitions?"

---

Modernity = Industrial System = Second Wave. It is about
standardization, centralization, maximization, etc which forms the
superstructure, but underneath that some countries managed to supplant
it with a proper representative democracy. Not suprisingly they are
better off than others.

---

Yes but the best way to do it is through democracy.

"Can you do modernity without democracy?"

---

Larry King was a good interviewer, but lost the touch near the end
there..

That quick, unbalancing question will work if 1 knows the
landscape. Use it on Seinfeld, u get your ass handed to you. Saw him
faceplant like that few more times too. 

---

"Putin.. He puts it in. So he's like Clinton!". 😆 😆 😆

Whose joke was that? It was good

---

OpenWeatherMap 👍. They nailed that prediction 4 days into
the future. Wind, rain, all there.

---

Dublex Inc. - Simply Smooth \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/kjtREqfIi3E)

---

An earlier [post](../../2014/02/is-earth-fked.md) on BW

"[A] geophysicist, Brad Werner, who in 2012 argued ... that we are in
this [climate] mess not because the market system is not working well
enough but because it is working too well. Werner’s startling
presentation to the annual conference of the American Geophysical
Union was titled ‘Is the Earth F--ked?’ and he posed in public the
question climate scientists and others who follow their work had been
asking in private... [He builds] on the fact that humans now
constitute a force of nature so powerful that we have caused the Earth
to enter a new geological epoch ... [We created] globally integrated
market system of resource-use and waste generation driven by the
relentless need to grow...

The essential problem, Werner argued, is that there is a mismatch
between the short time-scales of markets, and the political systems
tied to them, and the much longer time-scales that the Earth system
needs to accommodate human activity, including soaking up our carbon
dioxide and other wastes.

Technological progress and globalization of finance, transport and
communications have oiled the wheels of the human components of the
planetary system allowing it to speed up. But the pace of the natural
system carries on as it always has. The problem is not .. market
failure but market success"

[Link](https://theconversation.com/creative-self-destruction-and-the-climate-48303)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Plans for a “campus-scale” renewable hydrogen plant that will power a college, golf course and buses in Queensland, Australia were unveiled on 18 January by Energy Estate.<br><br>Read more here: <a href="https://t.co/H7rQ98SPKx">https://t.co/H7rQ98SPKx</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hazergroupltd?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hazergroupltd</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/golf?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#golf</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/buses?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#buses</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/renewables?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#renewables</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonisation?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonisation</a> <a href="https://t.co/VZIPmiZG2J">pic.twitter.com/VZIPmiZG2J</a></p>&mdash; Hazer Group Ltd (@hazergroupltd) <a href="https://twitter.com/hazergroupltd/status/1353477865858281474?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 24, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Maybe they already know they are getting their "gray" energy from
Russia, with CCS done on their side

US has potential for both (but dont frack, or transmit NG over pipes,
they leak, very hard to regulate, Id also watch for
[this shit](../../2019/09/sf6.md), the material is used in wind turbines and
high-voltage electric installations)

"How is Europe more gung-ho on green energy production compared to
other countries?"

---

Dubya used that stuff so well.. I'll never forget during one debate
Gore was constantly saying "I'll fight for this","I'll fight for that"
W jumps in and he's like "there's been enough fightin". Boom. With a
Southerner, cowboy delivery, good timing.. Gore was floored. Absolute
top notch salesmanship.

---

But the most obnoxious form of unity talk starts from the Washington
Consensus, post-politics mentality that emerged, a Frankenstein of the
post Berlin Wall, TINA world order. After the whole damn Berlin Wall
collapsed on their heads, Dems in abject fear started running around,
looked for a new place to go, lurched right, tried to outdo Reps in
their own game. Reps balked, and radicalized on 4G (Green, Gays, Guns,
God) to differentiate, so the Clinton years had insane amt of
drama. These issues were moral, ethical issues not political,
unresolvable, so intense fighting persisted, became
entrenched. Hannity vs Maddow, people screaming at eachother,
theather, junk-food politics are all the descendants of that era.

Now into this environment, in the eleventh inning steps in a certain
politican and asks for, you guessed it, unity, comity. It can sell..
"Im a uniter not a divider" etc. But thinking of the causes, for the
Dems especially, we know they r in no position to seek unity, their
leaving a major ideology unattended for years, and trying to displace
another is what caused the shitstorm to begin with, not to mention
Trump's rise.

Then what are we left with? A spin, on top of a big mistake, on top of
a generational shift -now defunct-... Meh. 

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4w_bNqs0-XM?start=411&end=552" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Sometimes the use of the word is tactical, you mention unity, if the
other guy does not go for it, now he is the asshole. Small effect, but
maybe worth a try for some.

Sometimes it is used bcz pol has no inclination to deliver anyway, you
ask for unity, you dont get it, than you immediately blame the other
side as a cover for you not doing anything.

There cld be some old cultural aspects involved; we talked abt during
[Pemmican Wars](../../2018/09/pemmican.md) Brits had to step in and *merge*
two companies. If such things happened more than once, maybe it became
"the legitimate thing", "the grown up thing" in the eyes of the US
political class, persisted in its DNA, at the very least, as a
lip-service, verbally.

---

Here are some reasons unity, or "going bi" is eluded to so much in
US politics.

During a pandemic, after Trump, and in a country composed of states,
it is not that off-kilter to pay some lip service to the concept. Of
course the unity of states doesnt imply political unity, but hey, it
rhymes, good TV. It's a feel-good word, like marshmallows, chicken
soup, Sunday morning.. School is out. Whatever...

---

Not bad... If there is less corp pandering, more left from AC, the bro
at CNN can be the new Fredo.

"Governor Andrew M. Cuomo today announced that leading alternative
energy technology provider Plug Power Inc. will establish a $125
million Innovation Center in New York State creating 377 new jobs. The
center, located in the Town of Henrietta, Monroe County, will be the
first world's first Gigafactory for Proton Exchange Membrane
technology. The company will use this facility to manufacture hydrogen
fuel cell stacks and electrolyzers"

[Link](https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-hydrogen-fuel-cell-energy-provider-plug-power-build-new-innovation)

---

Nice.. Good to see confirmation from Airbus, on weight, volume etc,
and they are actively thinking about it \#H2. Where is Boeing?

[Link](https://youtu.be/525YtyRi_Vc?t=342)

---

So light didnt bend near a star (only at the limb)? But I saw an
entire movie on Eddington saying he proved a theory right with one
observation! David Tennant was in it!  Frickin Doctor Who!

[Link](https://youtu.be/B_ixkOI4k8c?t=24)

---

The sun is not gaseous but made up of liquid metallic hydrogen?

[Video](https://youtu.be/Erql613GO_k)

The pics shows clear ripples dude.. just like in water.

Robitaille says mainstream science is wrong on the gas theory,
Kirchoff made an error (with his Law), and main sci need gaseous sun
to be correct for black holes, big bang to exist. 

[Video](https://youtu.be/NHOo3elX5-c?t=496)

[Video](https://youtu.be/5i6mCNgJNZs)

The sun has surface, it has frickin tornadoes

[Video](https://youtu.be/faywryDTmTE?t=6)

Faux black hole formation

[Video](https://youtu.be/cHGT0DgvhNM?t=115)

WTF?

---

"@LaborforSPayer

We've got a huge opportunity with the new administration to win
#MedicareForAll! This week, we're bringing labor and healthcare
activists together to map out how we'll win this fight - the #M4A2021
conference"

---

@anthonyLfisher

I spoke with Rep. Rashida Tlaib about why she's leading the opposition
against calls for a massive expansion of the security state in
reaction to the Capitol attack. She said eroding civil liberties is
not the answer to holding the rioters accountable.

---
