# Week 45

Nathan Lewis: "Everything needs to be decarbonized. My passion, our
research, is to do that by the silver bullet, which is to take the
biggest resource known to mankind, the Sun, and store it in the most
dense form known to man other than the nucleus of an atom, chemical
bonds.. Our job is...  to do photosynthesis with the Sun to make
chemical fuels that can be used to power our grids, store our
energy, work as our transportation fuels"

---

That is fantastic. Prof Nathan Lewis, eh?

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/g_1oiJqE3OI?start=725&end=812" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"[Trump] poured billions of taxpayer dollars into a small pharma
company and agreed not to share its Covid vaccine with the world. Now
Moderna is holding up the race to vaccinate low-income
countries"

[[-]](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/11/05/trump-deal-moderna-global-vaccine-effort-519771)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="und" dir="ltr"><a href="https://t.co/iYL6OYq7kk">pic.twitter.com/iYL6OYq7kk</a></p>&mdash; Gabriel Zucman (@gabriel_zucman) <a href="https://twitter.com/gabriel_zucman/status/1453564057491939336?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 28, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---


"[Enertrag] welcomed a Uruguayan delegation to its Uckermark, Germany,
renewable power plant as the company showcased the potential of green
hydrogen production and its exportation"

[[-]](https://www.h2-view.com/story/enertrag-welcomes-uruguayan-delegation-to-showcase-the-potential-of-green-hydrogen-production/)

---

Why did Rudolph Diesel not continue with ammonia engines? Production
of NH3 in huge amounts was probably a factor. Refining crude oil,
especially of a certain kind, isn't too hard.  But that was a long
time ago, we had a long time to work on ammonia production tech, plus
there is new urgency around the issue.

---

I read about that; it is apparently an ammonia based combustion
engine. 100% clean, zero emissions.

"Fortescue is undertaking to deliver several key projects... These
projects include: Developing a ship design powered by green ammonia
and trialing that design in new ammonia engine technology, at
scale.. Trialing technology on locomotives to run on green ammonia"

[[-]](https://www.greencarcongress.com/2021/04/20210410-fmg.html)

---

World Crude Oil Production, now through EIA API. Good source.

[[-]](2019/05/stats.md#worldoil)

---

TR Syria events, additions

[[-]](2017/12/timeline-syria-tr.md)

---

Global conflict [stats](2019/05/confstats.md) for September.

Afghanistan deaths way down (surprise), from over 4000. Incident count
too high for Mexico, though deaths not much.. drug related attacks,
sabotage, explosion maybe, but not direct homicide? Yemen, Nigeria
were at the top.

---

[Mike Judge](https://twitter.com/MikeJudge/status/1457529055595700235) üòÜ

---

Stanwell is building a plant in AU, using 17,000 m¬≤ of mirrors. Spain,
AU, the Middle East, Chile are great places for this tech. 

---

"An estimated 550 MW of concentrating solar thermal power (CSP) came
online in 2018, increasing cumulative global capacity more than 11% to
just under 5.5 GW"

---

At night no sunshine? No problem, there will still be gas in the
pipeline network, more than enough for night time usage.

---

CSP plant in Chile

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FDh3C9DWQAsX4ux?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

Reflecting, or redirecting sunlight through lenses can give immense
power. Haven't we all used a convex lense to focus sunlight on
something as a kid, and saw it burn? Get sunlight, create heat,
generate fuel. Simple.

---

High-voltage electric grid uses SF6 too.. another reason to
deelectrify, and use clean molecules for all long distance energy
transmission, keeping electrification at a minimum.

---

Wind turbines use that f-ing [SF6](2019/09/sf6.md), truly disgusting stuff

---

Excerpt from [The Rare Metals War](2021/10/the-rare-metals-war.md#ref1).

---

H2 pipelines, ammonia, CSP (Concentrated Solar Power) plants do not
require rare earth materials.  All you need for CSP is glass and steel
to make mirrors which is known tech and resources for it are
abundant. Efficiency at 30% equals solar panel tech.

---

"The current global supply of several critical metals is insufficient
to transition to a renewable energy system. [..P]roduction of wind
turbines and photovoltaic (PV) solar panels already requires a
significant share of the annual global production of some critical
metals. Looking at the global scale, scenarios in line with the goals
of the Paris Agreement require the global production of some metals to
grow at least twelvefold towards 2050, compared to today‚Äôs
output. Specifically, the demand for neodymium, terbium, indium,
dysprosium, and praseodymium stands out. This calculation does not
include the demand for these specific metals in other applications,
such as electric vehicles or consumer electronics"

---

"[W]hereas greenhouse gases force the climate system in the warming
direction, aerosols force the system in the cooling direction because
the airborne particles scatter and absorb incoming sunlight.

[Climate researcher Hansen believes to] power [the] large-scale [post
WWII] expansion of industry, Europeans and Americans burned an
enormous quantity of fossil fuels.. In addition to carbon dioxide,
burning fossil fuel produces particulate matter‚Äîincluding soot and
light-colored sulfate aerosols. Hansen suspects the relatively sudden,
massive output of aerosols from industries and power plants
contributed to the global cooling trend from 1940-1970.

'That‚Äôs my suggestion, though it‚Äôs still not proven,' [Hansen]
said. 'There is a nice record of sulfates ..  that shows this type of
particle was peaking in the atmosphere around 1970. And then the ice
core record shows a rapid decline in sulfates, right about the time
nations began regulating their emission.' (Sulfates cause acid rain
and other health and environmental problems.)"

[[-]](https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/features/GISSTemperature/giss_temperature4.php)

---

Yes between 40-70s there was a brief cooling in climate; but this
happened partly due to an action hard to replicate. We need to fix the
root of the problem, through clean fuels.

---

Got to play with üêç package `netcdf4`, can be useful later. Lots of
geo data is shared as cdf.

---

Working with raw data is never easy. Berkeley data could be spotty for
earlier years, thx to one suggest from a researcher fixed it through
interpolation.

---

I like the title

"Bad apples come from rotten trees in policing"

[[-]](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/how-we-rise/2020/05/30/bad-apples-come-from-rotten-trees-in-policing/)

---

