# Week 46

[Looks](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FEF9quAWYBALdvn?format=jpg&name=small)
pretty bad...

Reuters: "New Delhi to shut schools, construction sites as pollution
worsens... Air quality in Delhi... has declined due to crop stubble
burning, emissions from transport, coal-fired plants outside the city
and other industry, as well as open garbage burning and dust."

---

"India to achieve 50% clean energy share...  before 2030.. India will
have around 450 GW from solar and wind, while 70-100 GW will be from
hydropower plants"

---

"Agriculture is responsible for X percent of emissions"... A better
analysis would drill down to each use-case. Agro emissons.. from what?
Are emissions coming from the tractors used on the fields, or the
heating needed for the greenhouses (as in greenhouse farming), or the
animals, or something else? If the biggest use-case is known, you can
priotrize the tech for that.

---

"@Mills4Humanity

It’s going to take money and lots of it to solve the climate crisis
and taxes for the wealthiest people is one obvious way to get it"

---

It is not inconceivable in order to open itself a new space of
influence in ME, Qatar used Syrian conflict; the ME region's balance
was too tied in the US/SA/Israel/Egypt quad, cemented, and upstarts
like Qatar felt like had to go around them. Another upstart, TR, was
pulled into the quagmire along w Qatar for the same reason (notice the
strong relations between the two).

---

Saw a few times on Al Jazeera (financed by Qatar) whenever Assad is
mentioned, his name is qualified with something like THAT \#$%@#
TYRANT, or something similar .. Makes u flinch.. the tone doesnt fit
with otherwise mostly neutral sounding voice of the news channel.

---

Al Jazeera: "Qatar has no plan to normalise ties with Syria: Foreign minister"

---

Reuters: "UAE reopens Syria embassy in boost for Assad"

---

There are "leaks" today claiming mid-Sep 2012 Qatar (with France!) was
plotting to topple Assad. Dunno if true, but QTR did act "outside the
mainstream ME power centers" in near past, and had a few scuffles with
SA.

Added those to the [timeline](2017/12/timeline-syria-tr.md),
search for SA, QTR. 

---

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/FEAScLVXMAM6jd7?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---


"The rise of antiwork: Is there really a world without jobs?.. US
workers are quitting in droves amid the ‘Great Resignation’ – and a
growing movement is antiwork altogether"

[[-]](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/quit-job-anti-work-pandemic-b1951136.html)

---

Later industrial production and society did the same to farmers, made
them obsolete, structures built around that earlier era were done away
with. Empires whose being depended on land/plunder/peasants collapsed,
like the Ottomans. Farming itself became industrialized, where a
fraction of population engaged in such work could produce enough for
millions.

---

Cheap contrarianism. It was clear-cut. Foragers were
[replaced](2017/10/wtwrfn-foragers-farmers.md#replaced) en masse by
farmers.

"The progression of history was not clear-cut, from hunter-gathering to
farming"

---
