

Energy *can* become a non-issue. Absolutely. Yes we can.

H2 View: "Hydrogen has always been the answer to our energy
needs. However, the configuration of global politics post WW1, which
was won by oil and coal supremacy, was always going to be a tough nut
to crack...

With hydrogen, we can now take energy “off the table” as a source of
so many historic ills, and we can do it far more rapidly than has been
suggested"

---

H2 View: "Australia has started trials for a hydrogen *Guarantee of
Origin* scheme that aims to add value for all types of hydrogen with
specification on how the hydrogen was sourced to allow customers to
know how clean it is"

---

H2 View: "Australia has seen significant progress within its hydrogen
sector and has now been recognised as a ‘world leader’ in hydrogen
technologies in the State of Hydrogen report...

This expansion of the hydrogen sector will continue to expand with the
Government launching significant funding opportunities for the sector
[as seen in] the $464m Clean Hydrogen Industrial Hubs programme that
has already seen benefits with hubs being announced across the nation"

[[-]](https://www.h2-view.com/story/australia-recognised-as-world-leader-in-clean-and-affordable-hydrogen-production-says-report)

---

H2 View: "Sweden receives unique investment to develop a 24-station
strong hydrogen refuelling structure by 2025"

---

November atmo carbon levels - 0.45% YoY increase. Average increase for
every month since the 60s has been 0.44%. On track toward hell.

[[-]](2015/08/temp-increase.md#carbonyoy)

---

"@tcql

Looking at benefits for potential next job and I still just cannot
fathom anybody who would fight to keep the US healthcare
system. Insurance is a fucking nightmare and is *designed* at every
turn to frustrate, confuse, and deny help"

---

"@latimes

Leaked hospital records reveal huge, automated markups for healthcare
A former nurse at Scripps Memorial Hospital showed columnist David
Lazarus screenshots of the facility’s electronic health record
system. The screenshots show price hikes ranging from 575% to 675%
being automatically generated by the hospital’s software"

[[-]](https://twitter.com/i/events/1469421433021419525)

---

November Inflation 6.8%.

---

Never Tango with an Eskimo. That was a song.

---

I see.. Iglos have good insulation, the rest is body heat. They are
not the problem.

---

How do the Eskimo get heating..?

---

Yep. Confirms an earlier obs, this fact jumps out at you looking at
the emission graph. Heating is the worst polluter, first bcz of its
energy requirements (which are not 100% green) and through unorthodox
methods of generating heat IMO in the developing world.. I cant blame
them, the alternative wld be freezing to death.

US EPA: "Recent data suggest that space heating accounts for about 42
percent of energy use in U.S. residences and about 36 percent of
energy use in U.S. commercial buildings"

[[-]](https://www.epa.gov/rhc/renewable-space-heating)

---

