# Week 32

"@IoanGrillo
 
While drug trafficking violence in the U.S. is often cruelly
ghettoized, in Central America it has consumed entire nations"

---

Food growing, manufacturing, education, how are they delivered? Those
define capabilities, society forms around them. Automated farming,
tablets that can access all classes creates a different world than
bunch of people knee-deep in the mud, hippies or not.

---

NZ monthy temp [averages](https://www.climatestotravel.com/climate/new-zealand).
Itz good in this neighborhood..

| Month | C |
|-------|---
| January |  20	|
| February | 24	|
| March  | 19  |
| April | 16.5 |
| May | 14 |
| June |  11.5 |
| July  | 11 |
| August | 11.5	|
| September | 16 |
| October | 14.5 |
| November | 20	|
| December | 22	|

---

The Guardian: "New Zealand, Iceland, the UK, Tasmania and Ireland are
the places best suited to survive a global collapse of society,
according to a study.

The researchers said human civilisation was 'in a perilous state' due
to the highly interconnected and energy-intensive society that had
developed and the environmental damage this had caused.

To assess which nations would be most resilient to such a collapse,
countries were ranked according to their ability to grow food for
their population, protect their borders from unwanted mass migration,
and maintain an electrical grid and some manufacturing
ability. Islands in temperate regions and mostly with low population
densities came out on top.

The researchers said their study highlighted the factors that nations
must improve to increase resilience. They said that a globalised
society that prized economic efficiency damaged resilience, and that
spare capacity needed to exist in food and other vital sectors...

'We were quite surprised the UK came out strongly.. But it has the
potential to withstand shocks.'"

[Link](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jul/28/new-zealand-rated-best-place-to-survive-global-societal-collapse)

---

NYT: "Fires Continue to Ravage Greece Amid Europeâ€™s Protracted Heat Wave"

---

The Independent: "More Cubans try dangerous trip to US across Florida Straits"

---

"Russia Plans to Substitute Decline In Gas Exports To Europe By Blue
Hydrogen. Production of â€˜blueâ€™ carbon-neutral hydrogen already
possible, with cost estimated at around $2 per kilogram"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3AiZbYR)

---

It's crazy, that Oliver Stone *Snowden* movie, is full of A-list
actors. Gordon-Lewitt, Quinto, .. Scott Eastwood? That actress from
the Divergent movies..? I bet they jumped at the chance to be on this.

---

<blockquote width="200" class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Kuwait has the biggest tyre dump in the world. It is now on fire. <a href="https://t.co/RsaqMnyJFC">pic.twitter.com/RsaqMnyJFC</a></p>&mdash; Extinction Rebellion (@ExtinctionR) <a href="https://twitter.com/ExtinctionR/status/1423789470864662532?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 6, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Poland set to back down in EU legal row.. Poland will water down its
controversial justice reform following years of EU pressure, according
to Jaroslaw Kaczynski"

---

Is *Dune* timely? I dont think so. It's desert mysticism, little
*Lawrence of Arabia*, little *Game of Thrones*.. but no. The time for
that has passed. Now it is time for *Foundation*.

---

EIA is Energy Information Agency. IEA is International Energy Agency.
And IAEA is International Atomic Energy Agency. Got it.

---

"People were actually driving miles upon miles to go to work!"
Commuting will be the butt of jokes in the future (if we make it that
far).

---

EIA: "Work comprises about 35 percent of total vehicle travel"

---

I hope noone was hurt, but one has to admit from a certain angle it is
hilarious. The solution that is supposed to help with global warming
just created more greenhouse gas than a forest fire

---

ðŸ¤£ ðŸ¤£ ðŸ¤£ 

Business Insider: "A giant Tesla battery pack burst into flames during
testing, and it took 150 firefighters 4 days to put out"

[Link](https://www.businessinsider.com/tesla-megapack-battery-fire-burns-four-days-testing-australia-2021-8)

---

Elizabeth Gaines, the CEO of Fortescue Metals Group on ABC Oz tauting
green H2. Says for companies who ignore it are taking on huge risk

---

A good actor can make a good script phenomenal. That is true. 

---

"If it ain't on the page, it ain't on the stage". Good saying. A great
actor cannot save a bad script, or bad directing. Movies are mostly
about the story, the camera angles, when to cut etc.

Therefore what we see as successful actors are not just good actors,
but know how to pick scripts (and directors). They have an eye for
it. Otherwise they'd be toast.  Appear in wrong movies a few times you
are done bcz great work is not just about acting, but the overall
production.

---

