# Week 30

How abt paying back the principal part...? Borrower still needs munee
for that, if sold assets you are back to the original problem.

Lender cld actually be selling the asset themselves, part of a stock
buyback scheme of borrower's company maybe (lender -usually a broker
too- sells the stock back to the company, not triggering any tax
requirement for the borrower, or the lender)?

"A pledged-asset mortgage [eg portfolio loan] is recommended for
borrowers that have the cash or investments available and don't want
to sell their investments to pay for the down payment. Selling the
investments might trigger tax obligations to the IRS...

The asset is merely collateral for the lender in the event of borrower
default. However, for the borrower, the pledged asset could help
considerably with gaining approval for the loan. Using the asset to
secure the note may let the borrower demand a lower interest rate on
the note then they would have had with an unsecured loan. Typically,
pledged-asset loans provide borrowers with better interest rates than
unsecured loans.

Once the loan is paid off and the debt is fully satisfied, the lender
transfers the pledged asset back to the borrower"

[Link](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/pledgedasset.asp)

---

Apparently they usually borrow against their stock portfolio of their own company

"The wealthiest Americans avoided billions in taxes .. America's
billionaires have often financed their lavish lifestyles by using
their vast fortunes as collateral for loans, which can come with
single-digit interest rates"

[Link](https://www.businessinsider.com/american-billionaires-tax-avoidance-income-wealth-borrow-money-propublica-2021-6)

---

Snowden: "The first thing I do when I get a new phone is take it
apart. I don‚Äôt do this¬†to satisfy a tinkerer‚Äôs urge, or out of
political principle, but simply because¬†it is unsafe to
operate. Fixing the hardware, which is to say surgically removing the
two or three tiny microphones hidden inside, is only the first step of
an arduous process, and yet even after days of these DIY¬†security
improvements, my smartphone will remain the most dangerous item I
possess..

I can‚Äôt help but regard the¬†arrival of the¬†Pegasus Project¬†as a
turning-point‚Äîa well-researched, exhaustively-sourced, and frankly
crazy-making story..

In short, the phone in your hand exists in a state of perpetual
insecurity, open to infection by anyone willing to put money in the
hand of this new Insecurity Industry"

[Link](https://edwardsnowden.substack.com/p/ns-oh-god-how-is-this-legal)

---

The level of fail in analysing TR's predicament by the previous gen is
mind-boggling. These ppl pretty much sleep walked their entire
lives. Do the tally, almost noone is left unscathed.. and believe me I
know some of their smartest. Sad.

---

"@toddjersey

So we pay Kaiser 30,000 dollars per year for so called health
insurance and Friday my wife brought our 16 YO in for an MRI on doctor
recommendation (she‚Äôs fine). Copay was $200. Unreal"

---

Super

"I was the first college in my family to go to the moon" üòÜ

[Link](https://youtu.be/-_p287UVkEw?t=50)

---

The Guardian: "Monarch used secretive procedure to become only person
in country not bound by a green energy rule.. The Queen‚Äôs lawyers
secretly lobbied Scottish ministers to change a draft law to exempt
her private land from a major initiative to cut carbon emissions,
documents reveal"

---

Why do I open source? U see what's going on inside, feel better. Or
bcz it's free, carry the code (and its associated skillset) from
project to project, from one employment to next (next employer will
likely also buy into it bcz it's free), so OSS gradually becomes
everyone's favorite portable toolkit. 

---

Open Source isn't some hold-hands-kumbaya approach to software
development. When I send a patch (or now create a 'pull request') to a
project to fix a bug, or to improve something, I do it for selfish
reasons. I want those changes in there so next time I get the latest
code from that project I get the new stuff plus my changes. I
obviously do this for project whose code I need.

---

"The killing of a top journalist in the Netherlands shows that drugs
gangs are increasingly likely to use violence, a new German report
shows"

---

"Greece: Extreme drought sparks forest fires"

---

I see some patches in gobble gobble that are fine..

Some parts in Georgia look good..

Elevation is key

---

Shit is on fire

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/E7U4SfHWUAsp79H?format=png&name=small"/>

---

Ventusky has good live world temparature map

[Link](https://www.ventusky.com/?p=35.1;-17.1;3&l=feel)

---

"@Quicktake

A scorching heat wave is bringing record-high temperatures to the
Pacific Northwest that would normally be found in the Middle East and
Africa"

---

Automated vertical farming bitch

"Oregon farmworker dies at worksite during heat wave"

[Link](https://trib.al/uWoLqYy)

---

"Another intense heatwave is expected to spread across much of the
continental US this week"

---

Troop deployments [update](../../2019/05/confstats.md#gdtroop)

---

NYT: "[Biden] made it clear that most of the 2,500 American troops
currently stationed in Iraq would remain, simply reclassified on paper
into advisory and training roles. The United States‚Äô role, he said,
would be ‚Äúto continue to train, to assist, to help, and to deal with
ISIS as it arrives.'..

But in the conflict in Iraq, another decades-old war that many view as
more costly than the one in Afghanistan, he sees an American presence
as necessary, at least in part, to ward off the influence of Iran and
the continuing threat of the Islamic State"

---

WSJ: "U.S. Combat Troops Will Leave Iraq This Year, Biden Says"

---

Wut?

"Five die as India police fire at each other.. Policemen from Mizoram
and Assam states fired at each other over a contested border"

---

"@Zachary

@SenWarren says the longer the U.S. waits to regulate cryptocurrencies
'the more likely they will become so intertwined in our financial
system that there could be potentially serious consequences if this
market comes under stress.'"

---

"@johnmrushing

Silos‚Äîeven potentially empty ones‚Äîforce your opponent to expend
weapons incapacitating them. You can‚Äôt force your opponent to expend
weapons on forces they can‚Äôt track

'@Cape_Dread

I thought mobile missiles was the best way, not silos, which are fixed
in position'"

---

"@A_Andromeda_guy

Russia has got to have concerns about this sort of expenditure as they
have actually fought a war against China whereas the US has not, and
those missiles could just be easily aimed at Moscow during a border
dispute"

---

"China Is Building A Second Nuclear Missile Silo Field"

[Link](https://fas.org/blogs/security/2021/07/china-is-building-a-second-nuclear-missile-silo-field/)

---

H2goesRail

[Link](https://bit.ly/3iROHbs)

---

Not a big fan of these programs. IMO attacking the root with tech
(green molecules) will do more

"Agricultural carbon credit programs are cropping up left and right,
but the standards they adhere to are all over the map"

[Link](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/07/26/agriculture-carbon-credits-500744)

---

"Thousands of US firefighters are battling a blaze in California that
has grown so big it is generating its own weather system"

[Link](http://u.afp.com/Uaa2 )

---

"California and New York City have announced that they would require
all government employees to get the coronavirus vaccine or face weekly
COVID-19 testing"

---

"@fauxRayDalio

My bearish plays: BABA, JD and NIO. I don‚Äôt care what their growth or
revenue is. China‚Äôs Communist Ruling Party is a scam, untrustworthy,
and ultimately will pillage all profits from any company. American
investors will never see a dime. My bull position: India"

---

Its true

Vox: "Starbucks is sort of America‚Äôs bathroom. In cities like New
York, where public restrooms are hard to come by, it‚Äôs the de facto
spot to stop and pee"

---

Whats the deal? Tali wld only get rural and was supposed to keep out
of city centers?

"U.S. Intensifies Airstrikes as Taliban Offensive Nears Kandahar"

---

"US vows to support Afghan forces against Taliban"

---

"[I]f you follow the [GR] equations back in time, general relativity
eventually stops working. Therefore, no one presently knows how the
universe began. Indeed, we may never know. Since the days of Einstein,
physicists have made much progress detailing the history of the
universe. But the deeper they try to peer into our past, the more
difficult their task becomes...

The miserable status of today‚Äôs theories for the early universe makes
me wonder whether it has already happened. Cosmologists have hundreds
of theories, and many of those theories come in several variants. It‚Äôs
not quite as bad as in particle physics, but the situation is similar
in that cosmologists, too, produce loads of ill-motivated models for
no reason other than that they can get them published. (And they
insist this is good scientific practice. Don‚Äôt get me started.)..

The currently most popular theory for the early universe is called ‚Äúinflation‚Äù...

Ever since the results of the Planck in 2013 it hasn‚Äôt looked good for inflation"

[Link](http://backreaction.blogspot.com/2019/03/inflation-status-update.html)

---

"BioNTech wants to 'eradicate' malaria with mRNA vaccine"

---

Now he calls Bolsonaro "an agent of genocide".

---

At a time when covid was out of control, there was bunch of chaos,
Lula jumps in with 'Brasil has no government'. Right on the nose.

---

Lula F24 interview was great. The guy is an excellent communicator,
understands econ pretty well too..

---

"@conorsen

The lesson of this crisis is all ‚Äústructural economic problems‚Äù are
actually structural political problems and largely policy
choices. Don‚Äôt listen to anyone who says inequality/lowflation are
some natural function of how the economy works today"

---

Solopreneur? Interesting word.

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="es" dir="ltr">Editorial, Sales, Publicity, Marketing. <a href="https://t.co/xe3b3idUjM">pic.twitter.com/xe3b3idUjM</a></p>&mdash; ThanhmaiB üíô (@ThanhmaiUK) <a href="https://twitter.com/ThanhmaiUK/status/1415615294534455296?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 15, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Dark matter is an example of a research program that used to be
progressive but has become degenerative. In its original form, dark
matter was a simple parameterization that fit a lot of observations ‚Äì
a paradigmatic example of a good scientific hypothesis. However, as
David Merritt elucidates in his recent book 'A philosophical approach
to MOND', dark matter has trouble with more recent observations, and
physicists in the area have taken on to accommodating data, rather
than making successful predictions.

Moreover, the abundance of specific particle models for dark matter
that physicists have put forward are unnecessary to explain any
existing observations. These models produce publications but they do
not further progress. This isn‚Äôt so surprising because guessing a
specific particle from rather unspecific observations of its
gravitational pull has an infinitesimal chance of working.

Theories for the early universe or fifth forces suffer from a similar
problem. They do not explain any existing observations. Instead, they
make the existing ‚Äì very well working ‚Äì theories more complicated
without solving any problem"

[Link](http://backreaction.blogspot.com/2021/07/can-physics-be-too-speculative.html?m=1)

---

Politico: "Crypto-based ‚Äòshadow financial market‚Äô spooks
regulators.. Watchdogs are warning that some DeFi activities are
probably illegal under federal law and pose serious danger to
consumers"

---

I can tell bad RNGs.. Have my diy jukebox running of off RNGs, u start
noticing repeats after a while.. 

---

Nothing like a good random number generator... `os.urandom`.

It "allow[s] access to environmental noise collected from
device drivers and other sources".

---

See he dealth with FBI.. that's also experience :)

---

FBI had him as an informant to tell on his potentially communist
fellow actors. But he didn't do much snitching, from what I understand

---

Didnt see action at war but still, you are still in that machinery,
see how gov works. 

---

Reagan served in the military, was union leader before becoming governor. 

---

The pimp thing is funny.. before MF played that role in *Street
Smart*, noone knew what a pimp was. Afterwards, everyone is like 'yeah
that's a pimp'.

---

It is true a lot of avenues are open to you in US, for any race, if
you put your mind to it. MF played so many roles.. A pimp, a
President, a prisoner, God.. 

---

Dam.. Morgan Freeman is taking no shit on race relations from anyone

---

S. Weinberg passed away? Unzicker calls him an overhyped physicist

[Link](https://youtu.be/dNOMmYafygM?t=428)

---

Countries seem to be good on one thing or another.. meaning
containment strategies vs vaccinations.

---

Lockdowns in AU are overdone...  From this pt on it should have been
abt vaccines. 

"Thousands of anti-lockdown protesters gather in Australia's two
largest cities, with several arrested in Sydney after violent clashes
with police"

[Link](http://u.afp.com/UaMg )

---

"Exciting development from @H2AccelerateEU with the announcement of a
New Collaboration for ZeroEmission Hydrogen Trucking at Mass-Market
Scale"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3iuqkRj)

---

Italy: "@Repsol & @talgo agreed to Jointly Develop a Renewable
Hydrogen-Powered #Train"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3BlDnwI)

---

