# Week 8

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/card_img/1364925382311489540/CCjbXwd_?format=jpg&name=small"/>

[Link](https://www.alexander-dennis.com/media/news/2021/february/adl-s-british-built-h20-next-generation-hydrogen-bus-to-deliver-up-to-300-zero-emission-mile-range/)

---

<blockquote width="340" class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Happy to see <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> cooperation also outside Europe! Our colleague <a href="https://twitter.com/SabrineEU?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@SabrineEU</a> spoke at &quot;EU-Korea green partnership: Connecting Korea and EU&#39;s <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/GreenDeal?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#GreenDeal</a>&quot; about hydrogen strategies at EU and national level, w/ a focus on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/mobility?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#mobility</a> aspects. 🇪🇺🇰🇷<br>Recording <a href="https://t.co/nGmgj0kbKc">https://t.co/nGmgj0kbKc</a> <a href="https://t.co/IA5UEo2zMV">pic.twitter.com/IA5UEo2zMV</a></p>&mdash; Hydrogen Europe (@H2Europe) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Europe/status/1365216728045608960?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 26, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

I remember this fine innovation from 2019.. Aliminium hydride stores
H2, then just add water and H2 comes out?

A patent was granted on it, a start-up founded set to produce.. News
of peaceful applications of it wld be nice.

US DOE: "Ideal [military] equipment weight is 30% of a person’s body
weight, but some soldiers have to carry more than 100 pounds. To
lighten the load, the Army is looking into replacing lithium-ion
batteries with fuel cells for power generation—decreasing battery
weight by 50%. These 'wearable power systems' for the dismounted
solider can produce 20 watts (W) of continuous output and 35W of peak
power. To aid this effort, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is
working to drive down the cost of aluminum hydride—a promising
material that can be used for storing hydrogen to utilize in these
portable fuel systems"

[Link](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/4-ways-fuel-cells-power-us-military)

---

<iframe width="300" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/caYHHcP6jrs?start=29&end=114" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

"What is the reflation trade?"

---

I wonder if u can model earthquakes with a plate staying / swirling on
a rod. An active quake region is "the plate", and it's like quakes are
weights dropped on that plate, plate wants to be in equilibrium, at
level, hit on one side needs to be balanced with another hit on the
other..? 🤔

---

S. Strogatz's new Cornell lecture, Asymptotics and perturbation methods, on YouTube.

[Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KZsk8B_z8pI&list=PL5EH0ZJ7V0jV7kMYvPcZ7F9oaf_YAlfbI)

---

Movie summary: "In the final days of World War II, a secret experiment
to weaponize sharks is shut down and destroyed by the Third Reich. But
now 60 years later, a small ocean town is plagued by a bloodthirsty,
mysterious creature, one built and reanimated using parts of the
greatest killers to ever inhabit in the sea - the Sharkenstein
monster!"

---

*Sharkenstein* 😆 I have to see this shit.

---

"NPROXX can provide a hydrogen storage solution best suited to the
needs, pressures and the range of the vehicle"

[Link](https://www.nproxx.com/how-hydrogen-powers-different-vehicles/)

---

Dat $tick - not bad chigga

"Fuck a Crip walk, hit the strip like in Bangkok ♪♬

Never ever see me ever trip 'bout a lil' broad

See me on the TV screamin', 'Bitch, you a damn fraud'

And you don't wanna fuck with a chigga like me"

---

US DOE: "CHP technology can be deployed quickly, cost-effectively, and
with few geographic limitations. CHP can use a variety of fuels, both
fossil- and renewable-based. It has been employed for many years,
mostly in industrial, large commercial, and institutional
applications. CHP may not be widely recognized outside [those]
circles, but it has quietly been providing highly efficient
electricity and process heat to some of the most vital industries,
largest employers, urban centers, and campuses in the United States"

[Link](https://www.energy.gov/eere/amo/combined-heat-and-power-basics)

---

Using electricity from the grid, and w electric heaters producing heat
is a bad, bad idea. The grid is only 40% efficient, elec. heating is
33%, giving you overall efficiency of 13%.

Molecule based transmission is more efficient, use that to generate
both heat and electricity, on site, through this CHP.

---

Either in fossil (turbine) or FC mode, CHP takes the heat that comes
from the internal operation as a side product, and uses it for boiling
water that also provides heat.

---

"When house owners need a new heating system and oil is no longer an
option due to environmental concerns, then a gas heating system is
considered in most cases. In combination with a fuel cell system,
heating with gas becomes even more efficient and
eco-friendly. Recently, PACE partner Sunfire has launched its new fuel
cell system Sunfire-Home 750, which operates on natural gas or
liquefied propane gas (LPG) and is based on the solid oxide fuel cells
technology (SOFCs)"

[Link](https://pace-energy.eu/switching-from-heating-oil-to-fuel-cells/)

---

<blockquote width="240" class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Read our story &quot;Switching from Heating Oil to Fuel Cells&quot; how a family house in Germany reduced its energy consumption and emissions! <a href="https://twitter.com/sunfire_dresden?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@sunfire_dresden</a> <a href="https://t.co/lZoI0ASRTw">https://t.co/lZoI0ASRTw</a> <a href="https://t.co/XpTtZ9Xrkj">pic.twitter.com/XpTtZ9Xrkj</a></p>&mdash; PACE (@PACEmCHP) <a href="https://twitter.com/PACEmCHP/status/1364870473037807619?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 25, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

In the future, once H2 comes from the gas grid (hopefully green H2),
or portable cylinders, the gas can be fed straight into the unit.

---

[One unit](https://helbio.com/5-kw-combined-heat-and-power-system-chp/)
from Helbio offers 5 KW electric output, 7 kW thermal energy
output in the form of hot water using natural gas, LPG or biogas. It
turns the fuel into hydrogen internally to provide heating and
electricity through a PEM fuel cell. So it "reforms" LPG for instance, creates H2. 


---

There are, one is called CHP, meaning *combined heat and power*.

A CHP unit takes in fuel in gas or other forms, and provides heating
and electricity from this fuel.

"LPG or other gas based ideas sound nice, but are there any packaged
solutions?"

---

Powell to his credit recently said the real rate is closer to 10.

---

Attempted to replicate the Komlos calculation [here](../../2019/05/stats.md#unempl).
This is now **my** official unemployment rate.

Says the real rate is 12.52%, while official is 6.3%. Even U6
undercounts, at 11.1%.

---

Economist John Komlos: "[T]he restrictive official definition causes
the unemployment rate to appear to be much less than it actually
is. This implies that a crucial economic variable is systematically
underestimated causing confusion... Inappropriate economic policies
follow from bad data. In addition, the mismeasurement leaves analysts
to wonder why there is so much discontent in a society with full
employment ...

The true unemployment rate consists of the those officially
unemployed, plus half of those who are working part-time involuntarily
since they would like to work full-time, plus those who would like to
work but have not looked for work within the previous month"

[Link](https://www.longfinance.net/news/pamphleteers/true-us-unemployment-rate-march-2019/)

---

I need a more detailed unemployment calculation.

No I dont like the "U6".

---

What is the latest unemployment rate anyway?

---

Bcz I don't give a shit if they work or not.. People already work too
much.

What matters is ppl having healthcare and enough money to spend.

"Why don't you use the term 'working class' in your posts more?"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">While blue and green hydrogen are both options when it comes to future clean energy, <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/greenhydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#greenhydrogen</a> has been endorsed by a majority of Europe and Asia, accelerating the adoption of green hydrogen strategies. Read more in <a href="https://twitter.com/Forbes?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Forbes</a>. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/renewables?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#renewables</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/energy?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#energy</a><a href="https://t.co/rTqsFOJo6F">https://t.co/rTqsFOJo6F</a></p>&mdash; SunHydrogen (@SunHydrogen) <a href="https://twitter.com/SunHydrogen/status/1364965051665420300?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 25, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Hit TV show Frasier to be revived after 20 years"

---

"@Istanbultelaviv

It is beyond scandalous Netanyahu is handing out vaccines to Czech
Republic, Honduras, Guatemala, and Hungary, related to their opening
diplomatic offices/embassies in Jerusalem. Netanyahu is doing this on
own and is not gov policy-all the while Palestinians not being
vaccinated"

---

Haha .. "being few meal packs short of a picnic", a way of calling a person crazy.

---

The magic of `plt.savefig('%04d.png' % i)` and `convert -delay 30
*.png anim.gif`. This book had its code depend too tighly on
`vpython`, after many versions failed. Trick above makes it work
again. Simple.

---

"China Faces European Obstacles as Some Countries Heed U.S. Pressure"

---

"@Cm_KeithKaplan

We just banned Facial Recognition use by the @TeaneckNJGov Police
Department and Township Officials"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">&quot;Nikola Corp on Tuesday disclosed details on its hydrogen fuel-cell-powered product lineup that will include vehicles with a driving range of up to 900 miles.&quot;<a href="https://t.co/WXbJgAdFxJ">https://t.co/WXbJgAdFxJ</a></p>&mdash; Bj�rn Eng (@H2Bjorn) <a href="https://twitter.com/H2Bjorn/status/1364220898933305344?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 23, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"@ChrisMurphyCT

Republicans now pushing a 'work requirement' for child tax credit for
poor families. Funny, when they slashed the inheritance tax, I don't
remember talk of a 'work requirement' for billionaires' kids"

---

Case in point

"@rebeccaballhaus

When Texas deregulated power generation—creating the system that
failed last week—it required 60% of consumers to buy power from retail
providers, rather than a local utility. Those consumers paid $28B more
since 2004 than the utilities’ rates, WSJ finds"

---

Too many pro-market types not seeing the monopoly, rigged playing
field problem. You can fashion yourself as the hunter in the
wilderness, aaall free, independent, fine.. But no hunter would go
into a woods where the trees were magically being shifted around, and
game appears and disappears at a whim.. How come is this missed?  For
a self-reliant folk, they dont come across as too alert

---

\#WSJ

<img width="240" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EvAJ_csVkAEi7v8?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

"APA Group ... announced a plan to make a 43 kilometre section of its
Parmelia gas pipeline in Western Australia 100 per cent ready to
transport hydrogen"

[Link](https://www.afr.com/chanticleer/apa-joins-asx-hydrogen-push-20210223-p5754d)

---

Of course the "battery" tech mentioned here uses H2 combined with a
metal hydride. It is basically creating renewable fuel internally, on
demand.

This speaks to the versatility of the approach.. H2 can be stored in
huge amounts, transported with ease, and in certain type of usages,
yes, it can also act like a battery.

"With Texan power outages hitting the headlines this week, it’s worth
looking to a startup that’s developed the world’s first renewable,
hydrogen-powered energy storage system. At full charge, it can furnish
a house with electricity for about three days"

[Link](https://www.goodnewsnetwork.org/worlds-first-home-green-hydrogen-battery-powers-your-house-for-3-days/)

---

"South Australia has met 100% of its electricity demands with solar
energy for the first time over the weekend—most of it coming not from
solar farms but PV panels mounted on rooftops"

[Link](https://www.goodnewsnetwork.org/south-australia-solar-meets-100-percent-energy-demands/)

---

Scott Glenn was like David f..ing Carradine, mystical mountain guy.

---

*Vertical Limit* kept it real. 5 stars

---

*Bright*, in the spirit of MIB and even some t5th Elem. Only Will
Smith cld have pulled this off.

---

No, Unzic is proposing a new math to simplify current approaches, a
more expressive language in a way.. Not stuffing, squeezing shite into
extra dimensions so some data fits better.

"Is the [quaternion idea](../../2021/02/unzicker.md#quaternions) an hidden
dimension approach to physics?"

---

"@newyorkerunion

We’re back at the bargaining table tomorrow, and we’ve told @newyorker
and @condenast management that we expect them to bring a serious
counter to our wage proposal—one that will let us begin remedying
decades of low, stagnant, irregular pay"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I always dreamed of working in journalism but early in my career, i realized it wasn’t a financially viable path for someone like me, someone who grew up below the poverty line. <br>Appalling that nothing’s changed in 15 years, even at the most prestigious pubs. <a href="https://t.co/9xNuy2XMoP">https://t.co/9xNuy2XMoP</a></p>&mdash; Dina Fierro (@dinafierro_) <a href="https://twitter.com/dinafierro_/status/1364035581219643392?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 23, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Reuters: "For the longer term, the industry is closely watching
Europe’s biggest energy grid operator, E.ON, which is converting a gas
pipeline in Germany to deliver pure hydrogen"

[Link](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-australia-pipeline-hydrogen/future-proofing-australias-gas-networks-look-to-go-green-with-hydrogen-idUSKBN2AM0BR)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">i wish to write in such a way that google docs can never anticipate what im going to say next</p>&mdash; biblically accurate devil (@lil_morgy) <a href="https://twitter.com/lil_morgy/status/1363905597540720640?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 22, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

😊 👍

"@jonathanavila

Do any other hydrogen #fuelcell drivers get that awkward look from
surrounding motorist when you accelerate and all the H2O spews out of
the tailpipe?"

---

Supersymmetry

<iframe width="240"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xDXWelcSRH4?start=344&end=521" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

"Australia is showing the U.S. how to regulate Facebook and
Google.. The nation’s bid to force platforms to pay for news is an
important salvo in the effort"

[Link](https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2021/02/22/facebook-platforms-australia-payments-news/)

---

Hah, Kundt is friends with Penrose, S. Hawking's PhD advisor. Penrose
consulted Kundt a few times

---

That's right there is ejection from the middle of so-called black
holes, outward, even many artistic representation of BH's show
it.. But then how could there be any ejection at all? The f-ing thing
is supposed to pull everything in..

<iframe height="100" width="200" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BhDpApRa6BI?start=802&end=929" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The UK’s first <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a>-powered <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/train?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#train</a> has successfully undertaken its first mainline test, achieving a top speed of 50 mph. <a href="https://t.co/w86JyGt2J6">https://t.co/w86JyGt2J6</a></p>&mdash; Ballard Power (@BallardPwr) <a href="https://twitter.com/BallardPwr/status/1363761441329864706?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 22, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

"Biden is tired of dealing with the Middle East — and, barely a month
into his tenure, the region has noticed.

The signals are not meant to be subtle, his advisers say. The
president has made only one call to a head of state in the Middle East
— Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday — which
itself was delayed by more than three weeks and followed calls to
other allies and even adversaries like Russia and China"

[Link](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/02/22/biden-middle-east-foreign-policy-470589)

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">. <a href="https://twitter.com/ProtonMotor?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@ProtonMotor</a> Joins e-SHyIPS as Project Partner-Aim is to define guidelines for introduction of <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/hydrogen?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#hydrogen</a> in passenger <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/shippingand?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#shippingand</a> to promote its adoption within the framework of the global and EU strategy -<a href="https://t.co/b6x3uIQH0L">https://t.co/b6x3uIQH0L</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HydrogenNow?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HydrogenNow</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/H2?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#H2</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/fuelcells?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#fuelcells</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/decarbonise?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#decarbonise</a></p>&mdash; FuelCellsWorks (@fuelcellsworks) <a href="https://twitter.com/fuelcellsworks/status/1362775716346163200?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 19, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Looking at the hood.. Earthquakes of the past two years >4.5 seem to
be focused around the Agean.. 

[Code](util.py)


```python
import cartopy.crs as ccrs, cartopy
from quakefeeds import QuakeFeed
import requests, time, datetime

def get_eq2():
    feed = QuakeFeed("4.5", "month")
    res = []
    for i in range(len(feed)):
        d = datetime.datetime.fromtimestamp(feed[i]['properties']['time']/1000.0)
        s = feed[i]['properties']['mag']
        res.append([d,s])
    df = pd.DataFrame(res).sort_values(by=0)
    df = df.set_index(0)
    df.columns = ['Magnitude']
    return df

df = get_eq3()
fig = plt.figure(figsize=(20, 20))
ax = fig.add_subplot(1, 1, 1, projection=ccrs.PlateCarree())
ax.set_global()
ax.stock_img()
ax.coastlines()
ago = np.max(df.ago)-df.ago
s = np.power(3,df.mag)
ax.scatter(df.lon, df.lat, c=df.ago, \
           cmap=plt.cm.Reds, s=s, alpha=0.7,  \
	   transform=ccrs.PlateCarree())
ax.set_extent([minx,maxx,miny,maxy], crs=ccrs.PlateCarree())
plt.savefig('eq.png')
```

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Eu2zz5HXEAERzGs?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

True, libs have their own party in UK. 

Jacobin: "A major reason why the US welfare state is so meager, its
union movement so frail, and its working class so divided is that the
United States is the only advanced capitalist democracy where parties
of big business have always monopolized the political arena. The
morbid symptoms of this impasse are everywhere today, from the rise of
Trumpism, to the Democratic establishment’s stubborn opposition to
Medicare for All in the midst of a pandemic, to the deepening
polarization of national politics along partisan lines free from any
focus on redistributing wealth and power.

Identifying this problem, unfortunately, has proven to be much easier
than effectively overcoming it. ...

Like the United States today, the UK had an entrenched two-party
system in which the Liberal Party was politically hegemonic over
workers and their organizations in the late nineteenth century. Aiming
to win over the Libs’ working-class base, socialists avoided the twin
perils of marginalization and co-optation by organizing in and against
the party, building workplace militancy, confronting establishment
Liberals when possible, and allying with them when necessary.

The result was a decades-long dirty break, culminating in the founding
of the Labour Party in 1906 and its displacement of the Liberals"

[Link](https://jacobinmag.com/2021/02/labour-party-uk-lessons-socialists)

---

Half a million dead. No joke \#covid \#us

---

"Although they are increasing in popularity with consumers, electric
vehicles still account for a relatively small share of ground
transportation. Electrification is unlikely to replace conventional
jet fuel for air travel anytime soon.

That has some officials [in Hawaii] looking at another carbon-free
energy source: hydrogen"

[Link](https://www.hawaiipublicradio.org/post/hawaii-lawmaker-pushes-expanded-role-hydrogen-fuel)

---

CNBC: "Britain will build its first hydrogen fueled homes by April, offering
public a glimpse of the future"

[Link](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/02/16/britain-will-build-its-first-hydrogen-fueled-homes-by-april.html)

---

"U.S. Report Allows Russian Pipeline Project to Proceed, for Now"

---

Gases, liquids are awesome. Love the molecules. 

---

200 bar cylinders are standard, 40 liter will cost around $40
(recyclable anyway). Hyundai Nexo stores at 700 bars (10K psi), 3
tanks w enough H2 gas energy to move a car for >700 km.

---

Ah. `scipy` has a `constants` package.. No need to be "online" to
lookup basic unit conversions.

```python
import scipy.constants
print ('%0.2f' % scipy.constants.psi)
print ('%0.2f' % scipy.constants.bar)
print ('%0.2f' % (scipy.constants.psi*10000/scipy.constants.bar))
```

```text
6894.76
100000.00
689.48
```

---

Many countries use fossil [gas based](../../2018/10/lpg-cylinder-gas-kitchen-cab.md)
solutions for energy, it's cheap. With some increase in volume, the same delivery
cld be performed thr H2. 

---

Floating point numbah 🤣

---

I bet he is from Brooklyn.. "Newton's Luuuaaa".

---

Landau, great computational sci professor.. Wrote a fine book, and
shared vids of his lecture. Fantastic. Writes solid Python code.

---

"Gaza receives 20,000 Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine doses from UAE"

---

"Uber and Lyft say they’re just tech platforms, not transportation
companies that employ drivers, even as they tell city officials that
their drivers’ names should be treated as confidential trade secrets
because disclosure would make them easier for other companies to
poach"

[Link](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2021-02-17/gig-economy-coming-for-millions-of-u-s-jobs-after-california-s-uber-lyft-vote)

---

"Both *Ghostbusters* and its sequel were a perfect encapsulation of
Ronald Reagan’s 1980s, and the two movies reflect the ambivalent and
inchoate resentments of a rapidly deindustrializing working class. But
the most important — and culturally significant — embodiment of the
'Me First' decade in Ghostbusters was a small, pudgy green ghost who
eventually became known as 'Slimer.' ...

Instead of Slimer, Afterlife’s creators have given us Muncher, a
blobbish ghost who looks like Gudetama joined the Blue Man Group and
became carbuncular with tumors. Where Slimer was joy, Muncher is
depression; where Slimer was sex, Muncher is abstinence; where Slimer
gave his captors a run for their money, Muncher is snail-like; where
Slimer was booze and cocaine, Muncher is ketamine and opioids; and,
most important, where Slimer devoured with hedonistic abandon, Muncher
merely munches.

If Slimer was the Marquis de Sade, Muncher is a basement-dwelling
failson. Sluggish and anhedonic, neutered and soft, the big blue ghost
is the perfect embodiment of our era of permanent decline, in which
every downwardly mobile middle-class American has become lobotomized
by the internet and unsustainable consumption"

[Link](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2021/02/ghostbusters-afterlife-reboot-slimer-muncher)

---

"@bocxtop

Gofundme (2012): just a cool lil website where ur friends can support
your projects :)

Gofundme (2021): the backbone of the american healthcare system

imagine if we all put money into one national gofundme so that the
money would just be there if someone got sick, why has no one ever
thought of this :/"

---

"Oil spill from passing ship blackens Israel's Mediterranean shoreline"

---

"@arcanakhalil

Our information ecosystem is controlled by a few commercial entities
who operate based on profit motive- not on user experience or public
good. Flag of Australia \#facebooknewsban is an impt moment of
disruption. We can’t let it go to waste. Bring on public digital
infrastructure!"

---

Pull yourself up.. hang yourself .. with rope .. by your
bootstraps.. or something..?

Howdy partner?

"@Mike_Hixenbaugh

The fact that Texans have to shop for electricity from middle-man
companies that don’t actually generate power has always baffled
me. Remember to lock in your rate every year or you’ll get kicked onto
a variable rate plan and pay thousands to shiver in a dark, frozen
house"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Never in my life as a native Houstonian did I ever think I&#39;d see this <a href="https://t.co/ceHUf8M8MR">https://t.co/ceHUf8M8MR</a></p>&mdash; Michael Hardy (@mkerrhardy) <a href="https://twitter.com/mkerrhardy/status/1362940026707869697?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 20, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Satya Nutella.. Not bad.. Not bad

Hal Crawford: "Microsoft just landed a knockout blow in Australia’s
great digital media battle From seemingly out of nowhere, the veteran
tech giant has waded into the war between Facebook, Google and the
Australian government – and may emerge the ultimate victor"

[Link](https://thespinoff.co.nz/media/10-02-2021/microsoft-just-landed-a-knockout-blow-in-australias-great-digital-media-battle/)

---

"@jhutchings0

Can confirm. Was literally in those meetings ~13 years ago during
Windows 7 development. There's also a generic device icon we called a
beer fridge because a smart fridge seemed absolutely silly at the
time"

---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">microsoft dev relations meeting, 15 years ago:<br><br>“see, we use a TOASTER since no one in their right mind would ever think to plug a toaster into their computer. right?”<br><br>*15 years later*<br><br>dammit.</p>&mdash; Kyle Seth Gray (@kylesethgray) <a href="https://twitter.com/kylesethgray/status/1362047030537973763?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 17, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

---

Moon Mission - Kai Rautenberg Organ \#mission

[Link](https://youtu.be/eCqBPGmj0Uo)

---

Malibu - D.I.E.T. \#music

[Link](https://youtu.be/ZKvi2Qyj4Yg)

---

Dehydrating tuna.

This guy has some serious hardware.. vacuum sealer? 

[Link](https://youtu.be/UC0KVAfUc8c?t=363)

---

Key to mobility / camping is dried food. Dried plums, sour cherry...

[Boom](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EugM3UxWgAIxTLp?format=jpg&name=small).
[Boom](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EugM73bXIAE8SSr?format=jpg&name=small).

Before eat dont forget to rehydrate (can hurt some stomach dry),
boil in water (dont throw away water, nutr in there).

Coupled with some aminos, covers all bases.

---

Yea, typical output of 5 kw cannot drive such a system

"An electric furnace is a type of heating system which utilizes
electricity to heat the home, often using a fan to provide forced-air
through the home's ducts. It is generally more expensive to heat a
home using electricity rather than natural gas or other [wink wink H2]
sources of fuel. The cost of running an electric furnace varies
significantly depending on the size of the home, the type of electric
furnace used, cost of electricity, and the climate. Electric furnaces
range from 10 kilowatts to 50 kilowatts, we estimate that a 2,400
square foot home using a modern high efficiency electric furnace uses
18,000 watts for heating when the furnace is being used"

[Link](https://energyusecalculator.com/electricity_furnace.htm)

---

During emerg turn off heating.. turn off AC if summer. WTF? 

[Link](https://swellenergy.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360013558094-Powerwall-Operations-During-A-Utility-Outage)

---

This confirms what's known from caravans, campervans, motorhomes;
batteries are for non-essential appliances, Nintendo, Playstation
console or whatever, but for anything serious, AC, heating, oven, they
have a gas based solution.

"If you’re one of those homeowners looking to add a home battery
system to your solar installation .. things you should know
... Whole-home backup protection is not possible for very long. No
residential storage system on the market has enough power and storage
capacity to run an entire home, regardless of their
advertising... Most homes use between 20 and 60 amps or more of power
per hour. High-amperage appliances like air conditioning, electric
ovens, and electric water heaters use massive amounts of power when
running, so whole-home backup is not realistic with today’s battery
and inverter technology. What the right system can do is keep your
lights and your critical appliances on long enough to get you through
a blackout and have your solar panels recharge your battery the next
day"

[Link](https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/01/14/1970196/0/en/Five-Things-You-Should-Know-When-Buying-a-Home-Solar-Battery-System.html)

---
