# Week 29


The nationâ€™s top infectious disease doctor says the country would
still have smallpox if vaccine hesitancy had had such a loud megaphone

[Link](https://trib.al/wGmFvPS )

---

ME conflict [stats](2019/05/confstats.md#gdeltme)

---


<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lXuQKoQCtOc?start=485" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

<iframe width="340" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ME_rprRlmMM?end=176" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

US gets the right people, and is culturally IMO adamant about
it.. Look at how Obama, the "black President" deported over two
million immigrants. I know two non-American national swimmers,
brothers, *both* of them won the Green card "lottery".

---

UK was pretty quick in granting British passports to Hong Kong
citizens. IMO they want that high-skilled workforce emigrating to UK.
They care more abt that than human rights.

---

US experienced backlash, bcz it had not built mechanisms to
redistribute. UK does have the mechanisms, just could not generate
enough capability, money to do so.

---

Both Canada and UK took in a lot of immigrants but their GDP Per
Capita was flat. 2% ppl increase with 2% GDP increase means no change.
GDP Per Capita captures capability, power, so it is key.

Looking at graph we can say UK/Canada did not get skilled
immigration. For UK maybe this backfired, led to Brexit?  There are
bunch of new people around you, but you are not getting
disproportionately richer bcz of it ðŸ¤¨

<img width="340" src="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/E03sBtlX0Akvzai?format=jpg&name=small"/>

---

Great review of *Pig*..

[Link](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2021/07/nicolas-cage-pig-movie-review/619466/)

---

NYT: "No One is Safe. How The Heatwave Has Battered the Wealthy
World.. Floods swept Germany, fires ravaged the American West and
another heat wave loomed, driving home the reality that the worldâ€™s
richest nations remain unprepared for the intensifying consequences of
climate change"

---

"@H2Standard

GKN Aerospace is leading a Swedish national collaboration project
H2JET that will develop important engine subsystems for
hydrogen-propulsion for medium range civil aircraft. Power can be
generated by either direct combustion or by use of a fuelcell.

[Link](https://bit.ly/36Haey1)

---


"@CNNSotu

GOP Sen. Rob Portman says the improvement of IRS enforcement of
existing laws is not included in his proposal as a potential method to
pay for the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure deal"

---

Yes.

"Should they be able to, ethically, legally?"

---

Yes.

"Should the police discourage homeless tents in California's Venice Beach?"

---

"@CalMatters

California is the first state to fund universal basic income pilot
efforts"

---

See I bet the NY voters knew that abt him.. and the stop-and-frisk
thing.. then they made a call. Leader judgement of ppl is not
bad. Policy judgement, not so much.

---

Adams was beaten by the police when young. Dam. 

[Link](https://www.facebook.com/abcplanetamerica/videos/extended-interview-eric-adams/574640500142229/)

---

Beckley: "Yes history has shown that technological revolutions create
prosperity in the long run but every single time one of these things
has happened they have forced some workers into lower wage jobs or
into unemployment in the short run, and the short run can actually
last an entire lifetime. So if you study the Industrial Revolution,
one of the biggest technological revolutions, for the first 70 years
of the industrial revolution in the Great Britain from 1770 to 1840,
average wages actually stagnated, and living standards declined.  The
average height of men actually shrunk because they had less nutrition
over that 70 years, even as output per worker expanded by nearly 50
percent, that's because the gains from mass mechanization during that
time were largely captured by business elites...

[In our future, due to automation] there could be a world where you
would have sluggish growth, lots of debt, stagnant wages, for at least
a big part of the population, and extreme inequality. If you had that
kind of economic world that of course would breed nationalism and
extremism"

---

Here I list it again; worst polluters in history, responsible for 70%
of all carbon emissions, all time:

US, China, UK, Japan, Germany, India, Russia, France, Canada.

---

Private equity millionaire's son is chosen to go to space by Bezos but
he is "more of a fan" of the Tesla's monkey boy? Dude *who gives a
shit*?

---

"Switzerland's.. Migros [plans to] deliver... its goods with green
hydrogen fuel-cell trucks"

[Link](https://bit.ly/3AXdhjE)

---

I am not entirely convinced Cuban regime wants the ambargo to end..
Why would they? It is the perfect scapegoat. Some during the 90s did
claim convincingly Castro was making moves for it, to keep the
ambargo.

---

Then there was [this](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/E6hGDLGWYAYVYiy?format=jpg&name=small)
and [this](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&id=1xmUDnMkyVI1HWFgjp1J9erOw33eMzIKq)
likely hurting Al Gore and later Hilary, respectively, in Florida.

---

There are a boat load of examples where a Dem was screwed bcz of
Cuba..  You could claim Clinton lost gov in 1980 partly bcz of
Castro. Cuba sent refugees to US, Carter dumped them on Arkansas,
there was a ruckus, Cubans escaped from camp and armed citizens nearly
shot them to death. Some other factors were there 2, but the refugee
issue loomed large.

---

Providing "gonzo Internet" to Cuba.. good idea. 

---


