# Week 31

Yahoo! News: "If she filled out and submitted a [req for permission],
Biles was covered to continue taking Ritalin in Tokyo without fear of
arrest. So while it's impossible to determine what has causedÂ Biles'
[drop out..] a lack of medication is almost certainly not to blame"

---

Temp 34 feels like 39, humidity 49%. Yep.

---

---

Absolutely, Cuba has a ruling elite.

Second Wave, whether w capitalism or communism, has [Integrators](2011/03/integrators.md).

---

All this "displacing the elite" talk is usually a ruse, the elite is
not displaced but merely *replaced* by -wait or it- another elite. It
cant work any differently within the context of modernity (second
wave)

---

"Trump as populist bcz he does what ppl want"???  What the hell u
talking abt? DT was like a self-proclaimed king! He knew everything
better than you!

---

US, Covid, Delta Variant

\#PlanetAmericaABC

[Link](https://youtu.be/DM8wJvkRqT4?t=237)

---

Many things can be tied to self interest. Do we want ppl walking
around coughing up a lung from treatable ilness, going bankrupt from
med debt so they start breaking into ur house for money? I want
single-payer so desparation is reduced. M4A is smart policy.

---

"@Redistrict

One thing Trump's endorsement isn't doing so far in 2021: helping his
chosen candidates raise money. Between Susan Wright (R) in #TX06 and
Mike Carey (R) in #OH15, his candidates are getting significantly
outspent"

---

Yeah Maradona could run circles around 7 guys and score, but how many
times can you pull that shit off?

---

Football utilizes many of the greater-sum concepts these days; pay
attn to how players pass eachother, there is a certain pattern, there
are triangles, they advance through little passes, piece by piece,
which can build up to a GOOOOOOAAAAAAALLLLLL!!!!!

---

Hah they are both Argentinian, good question.

I'd say Messi comes out on top. Maradona was great but he was also a
"flash in the pan" in many ways, he'd shine one game, than nothing for
many others... Messi is a professional. Delivers solid performance in
every game. Team player.

"How does Messi measure up to Maradona?"

---

Where did I get that UNICEF number: "every day 19,000 children die
from preventable causes"? I saw it on a commercial with football
player Messi.

---

Guy has a mad hatter look to him too. Is he getting pulled toward the
Cuck Side?

---

Some say Feige is behind the kerkuffle.. He did well with the MCU
pre-2020, but the new crop of stuff don't look so good..

---

IMO the movie was a dud

"Disney is sued over streaming of Black Widow"

---

Minorities, cultures, assimilation... let me put it this way.  US has
10% of its population with Irish ancestry. This probably translated
into its cultural make-up, so let's say 10% of US is culturally
Irish. This means EVERYONE in US including the so-called "Irish
people". They are not 100% Irish, they are also 10%. This might bother
some, u thought you were "special", "ethnic", but you are another boring
citizen.

---
