# Week 43

"@INEOS as it plans to Invest $2.3 bln on Green Hydrogen
Production. First plants will be built in Norway, Germany and Belgium"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/3FXZwDP)

---

"Saudi Arabian Oil Keynote address .. Planning one of world’s biggest
green hydrogen plants with partners"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/3pvMZ4M)

---

"Shell and Partners are Promoting the Integrated Hydrogen Economy in
the Transport Sector. @Shell & partners presented 1st medium-duty
fuel cell truck at ITS World Congress in Hamburg"

[[-]](https://bit.ly/3E8LGNb)

---

NYT: "In 1984 [an actor] accidentally shot himself in the head and
died while playing Russian roulette on set; the force of a blank
round’s explosion fractured his skull.And there was an accident on a
movie set in 1993 in which the actor Brandon Lee, Bruce Lee’s son, was
shot and killed during a scene when a bullet that was lodged in the
barrel of a gun was discharged along with a blank cartridge"

---

Because battery charging is slow, they need to apply too much power,
to recharge faster. That will overburden the grid, also degrade the
battery. Finally ka-boom!

National Geographic: "At high charging speeds lithium batteries can
overheat, causing them to degrade over time.. [N]ot only can that
drastically reduce the battery’s capacity... dendrites can grow across
the electrolyte, touch the cathode and create a short circuit, causing
the battery to catch fire or explode"

[[-]](https://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/article/will-charging-electric-cars-ever-be-as-fast-as-pumping-gas)

---

These things keep catching fire..

I bet it has something to do with fast charging. 

"After a major fire in Stuttgart: Munich pulls eight battery buses out
of service...  other transport companies are drawing conclusions. The
Münchner Verkehrsgesellschaft (MVG) is now taking eight electric buses
out of service as a precaution.. In Stuttgart, the electric charging
station was destroyed in the fire on September 30th. Therefore, no
electric buses are currently in use"

---

Yahoo News: "A top NIH official admitted in a Wednesday letter that
U.S. taxpayers funded gain-of-function research on bat coronaviruses
in Wuhan .. The revelation vindicates Republican senator Rand Paul,
who got into heated exchanges with National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Disease director Anthony Fauci during his May and July
testimonials before Congress over the gain-of-function question"

---

Vanity Fair: "In Major Shift, NIH Admits Funding Risky Virus Research
in Wuhan"

---

TDB: "Margaret Atwood, the celebrated author of feminist dystopian
novel The Handmaid’s Tale, angered some of her fans this week when she
tweeted out an op-ed by another writer titled, 'Why can’t we say
‘woman’ anymore?'"

[[-]](https://trib.al/2rDn6Zp)

---

"French education minister’s anti-woke mission.. Emmanuel Macron's
government is making the fight against woke theories a cornerstone of
its push to rally supporters from the left and the right"

---



